" i 'll call to him , " she replied , " to come up to cullamore and refresh himself , and maybe that will give you and finn time to think of some plan to get yourselves out of the scrape . but , " she proceeded , " i 'm short of butter , having in the house only half a dozen firkins , and as i 'm to have a few giants and giantesses to spend the evenin ' with me i 'd feel thankful , oonagh , if you 'd throw me up fifteen or sixteen tubs , or the largest miscaun you 've got , and you 'll oblige me very much . " " i 'll do that with a heart and a half , " replied oonagh ; " and , indeed , granua , i feel myself under great obligations to you for your kindness in keeping him off us till we see what can be done ; for what would become of us all if anything happened to finn , poor man ! " she accordingly got the largest miscaun of butter she had -- which might be about the weight of a couple of dozen millstones , so that you can easily judge of its size -- and calling up her sister , " granua , " says she , " are you ready ? i 'm going to throw you up a miscaun , so be prepared to catch it . " " i will , " said the other . " a good throw , now , and take care it does not fall short . " oonagh threw it , but in consequence of her anxiety about finn and far rua she forgot to say the charm that was to send it up , so that instead of reaching cullamore , as she expected , it fell about half - way between the two hills at the edge of the broad bog , near augher . " my curse upon you ! " she exclaimed , " you 've disgraced me . i now change you into a grey stone . lie there as a testimony of what has happened , and may evil betide the first living man that will ever attempt to move or injure you ! " and , sure enough , there it lies to this day , with the mark of the four fingers and thumb imprinted on it , exactly as it came out of her hand . " never mind , " said granua , " i must only do the best i can with far rua . if all fail , i 'll give him a cast of heather broth , or a panada of oak bark . but , above all things , think of some plan to get finn out of the scrape he 's in , or he 's a lost man . you know you used to be sharp and ready - witted ; and my own opinion is , oonagh , that it will go hard with you , or you 'll outdo far rua yet . " she then made a high smoke on the top of the hill , after which she put her finger in her mouth and gave three whistles , and by that far rua knew that he was invited to the top of cullamore -- for this was the way that the irish long ago gave a sign to all strangers and travellers to let them know they are welcome to come and take share of whatever was going . 