at this oonagh set up a loud laugh of great contempt , by the way , and looked at him as if he were only a mere handful of a man . " did you ever see finn ? " said she , changing her manner all at once . " how could i ? " said he . " he always took care to keep his distance . " " i thought so , " she replied . " i judged as much ; and if you take my advice , you poor - looking creature , you 'll pray night and day that you may never see him , for i tell you it will be a black day for you when you do . but , in the meantime , you perceive that the wind 's on the door , and as finn himself is far from home , maybe you 'd be civil enough to turn the house , for it 's always what finn does when he 's here . " this was a startler , even to far rua ; but he got up , however , and after pulling the middle finger of his right hand until it cracked three times , he went outside , and getting his arms about the house , completely turned it as she had wished . when finn saw this he felt a certain description of moisture , which shall be nameless , oozing out through every pore of his skin ; but oonagh , depending upon her woman 's wit , felt not a whit daunted . " arrah , then , " said she , " as you 're so civil , maybe you 'd do another obliging turn for us , as finn 's not here to do it himself . you see , after this long stretch of dry weather that we 've had , we feel very badly off for want of water . now , finn says there 's a fine spring well somewhere under the rocks behind the hill there below , and it was his intention to pull them asunder ; but having heard of you he left the place in such a fury that he never thought of it . now , if you try to find it , troth , i 'd feel it a kindness . " she then brought far rua down to see the place , which was then all one solid rock ; and after looking at it for some time , he cracked his right middle finger nine times , and , stooping down , tore a cleft about four hundred feet deep and a quarter of a mile in length , which has since been christened by the name of lumford 's glen . this feat nearly threw oonagh herself off her guard ; but what wo n't a woman 's sagacity and presence of mind accomplish ? " you 'll now come in , " said she , " and eat a bit of such humble fare as we can give . finn , even though you and he were enemies , would scorn not to treat you kindly in his own house ; and , indeed , if i did n't do it even in his absence , he would not be pleased with me . " she accordingly brought him in , and placing half a dozen of the cakes we spoke of before him , together with a can or two of butter , a side of boiled bacon , and a stack of cabbage , she desired him to help himself -- for this , be it known , was long before the invention of potatoes . far rua , who , by the way , was a glutton as well as a hero , put one of the cakes in his mouth to take a huge whack out of it , when both finn and oonagh were stunned with a noise that resembled something between a growl and a yell . " blood and fury ! " he shouted out . " how is this ? here are two of my teeth out ! what kind of bread is this you gave me ? " " what 's the matter ? " said oonagh coolly . " matter ! " shouted the other . " why , here are two of the best teeth in my head gone . " 