she then brought far rua down to see the place , which was then all one solid rock ; and after looking at it for some time , he cracked his right middle finger nine times , and , stooping down , tore a cleft about four hundred feet deep and a quarter of a mile in length , which has since been christened by the name of lumford 's glen . this feat nearly threw oonagh herself off her guard ; but what wo n't a woman 's sagacity and presence of mind accomplish ? " you 'll now come in , " said she , " and eat a bit of such humble fare as we can give . finn , even though you and he were enemies , would scorn not to treat you kindly in his own house ; and , indeed , if i did n't do it even in his absence , he would not be pleased with me . " she accordingly brought him in , and placing half a dozen of the cakes we spoke of before him , together with a can or two of butter , a side of boiled bacon , and a stack of cabbage , she desired him to help himself -- for this , be it known , was long before the invention of potatoes . far rua , who , by the way , was a glutton as well as a hero , put one of the cakes in his mouth to take a huge whack out of it , when both finn and oonagh were stunned with a noise that resembled something between a growl and a yell . " blood and fury ! " he shouted out . " how is this ? here are two of my teeth out ! what kind of bread is this you gave me ? " " what 's the matter ? " said oonagh coolly . " matter ! " shouted the other . " why , here are two of the best teeth in my head gone . " " why , " said she , " that 's finn 's bread -- the only bread he ever eats when at home ; but , indeed , i forgot to tell you that nobody can eat it but himself and that child in the cradle there . i thought , however , that as you were reported to be rather a stout little fellow of your size you might be able to manage it , and i did not wish to affront a man that thinks himself able to fight finn . here 's another cake -- maybe it 's not so hard as that . " far rua , at the moment , was not only hungry , but ravenous , so he accordingly made a fresh set at the second cake , and immediately another yell was heard twice as loud as the first . " thunder and giblets ! " he roared , " take your bread out of this , or i will not have a tooth in my head ; there 's another pair of them gone . " " well , honest man , " replied oonagh , " if you 're not able to eat the bread say so quietly , and do n't be awakening the child in the cradle there . there , now , he 's awake upon me ! " finn now gave a skirl that frightened the giant , as coming from such a youngster as he was represented to be . " mother , " said he , " i 'm hungry -- get me something to eat . " oonagh went over , and putting into his hand a cake that had no griddle in it -- finn , whose appetite in the meantime was sharpened by what he saw going forward , soon made it disappear . far rua was thunderstruck , and secretly thanked his stars that he had the good fortune to miss meeting finn , for , as he said to himself , i 'd have no chance with a man who could eat such bread as that , which even his son that 's in the cradle can munch before my eyes . " i 'd like to take a glimpse at the lad in the cradle , " said he to oonagh , " for i can tell you that the infant who can manage that nutriment is no joke to look at or to feed of a scarce summer . " " with all the veins of my heart , " replied oonagh . " get up , acushla , and show this decent little man something that wo n't be unworthy of your father , finn m'coul . " finn , who was dressed for the occasion as much like a boy as possible , got up , and bringing far rua out , " are you strong ? " said he . " thunder and ounze ! " exclaimed the other , " what a voice in so small a chap ! " " are you strong ? " said finn again . " are you able to squeeze water out of that white stone ? " he asked , putting one into far rua 's hand . the latter squeezed and squeezed the stone , but to no purpose ; he might pull the rocks of lumford 's glen asunder , and flatten a thunderbolt , but to squeeze water out of a white stone was beyond his strength . finn eyed him with great contempt as he kept straining and squeezing and squeezing and straining till he got black in the face with the efforts . " ah , you 're a poor creature , " said finn . " you a giant ! give me the stone here , and when i 'll show what finn 's little son can do you may then judge of what my daddy himself is . " finn then took the stone , and then , slyly exchanging it for the curds , he squeezed the latter until the whey , as clear as water , oozed out in a little shower from his hand . " i 'll now go in , " said he , " to my cradle ; for i scorn to lose my time with anyone that 's not able to eat my daddy 's bread , or squeeze water out of a stone . bedad , you had better be off out of this before he comes back , for if he catches you , it 's in flummery he 'd have you in two minutes . " far rua , seeing what he had seen , was of the same opinion himself ; his knees knocked together with the terror of finn 's return , and he accordingly hastened in to bid oonagh farewell , and to assure her that , from that day out , he never wished to hear of , much less to see , her husband . " i admit fairly that i 'm not a match for him , " said he , " strong as i am . tell him i will avoid him as i would the plague , and that i will make myself scarce in this part of the country while i live . " finn , in the meantime , had gone into the cradle , where he lay very quietly , his heart in his mouth with delight that far rua was about to take his departure without discovering the tricks that been played off on him . " it 's well for you , " said oonagh , " that he does n't happen to be here , for it 's nothing but hawk 's meat he 'd make of you . " " i know that , " said far rua , " divel a thing else he 'd make of me ; but , before i go , will you let me feel what kind of teeth they are that can eat griddle - cakes like that ? " and he pointed to it as he spoke . " with all the pleasure in life , " says she ; " only as they 're far back in his head you must put your finger a good way in . " far rua was surprised to find so powerful a set of grinders in one so young ; but he was still much more so on finding , when he took his hand from finn 's mouth , that he had left the very finger upon which his whole strength depended behind him . he gave one loud groan and fell down at once with terror and weakness . this was all finn wanted , who now knew that his most powerful and bitterest enemy was completely at his mercy . he instantly started out of the cradle , and in a few minutes the great far rua , that was for such a length of time the terror of him and all his followers , was no more . 