she then brought far rua down to see the place , which was then all one solid rock ; and after looking at it for some time , he cracked his right middle finger nine times , and , stooping down , tore a cleft about four hundred feet deep and a quarter of a mile in length , which has since been christened by the name of lumford 's glen . this feat nearly threw oonagh herself off her guard ; but what wo n't a woman 's sagacity and presence of mind accomplish ? " you 'll now come in , " said she , " and eat a bit of such humble fare as we can give . finn , even though you and he were enemies , would scorn not to treat you kindly in his own house ; and , indeed , if i did n't do it even in his absence , he would not be pleased with me . " she accordingly brought him in , and placing half a dozen of the cakes we spoke of before him , together with a can or two of butter , a side of boiled bacon , and a stack of cabbage , she desired him to help himself -- for this , be it known , was long before the invention of potatoes . far rua , who , by the way , was a glutton as well as a hero , put one of the cakes in his mouth to take a huge whack out of it , when both finn and oonagh were stunned with a noise that resembled something between a growl and a yell . " blood and fury ! " he shouted out . " how is this ? here are two of my teeth out ! what kind of bread is this you gave me ? " " what 's the matter ? " said oonagh coolly . " matter ! " shouted the other . " why , here are two of the best teeth in my head gone . " " why , " said she , " that 's finn 's bread -- the only bread he ever eats when at home ; but , indeed , i forgot to tell you that nobody can eat it but himself and that child in the cradle there . i thought , however , that as you were reported to be rather a stout little fellow of your size you might be able to manage it , and i did not wish to affront a man that thinks himself able to fight finn . here 's another cake -- maybe it 's not so hard as that . " far rua , at the moment , was not only hungry , but ravenous , so he accordingly made a fresh set at the second cake , and immediately another yell was heard twice as loud as the first . " thunder and giblets ! " he roared , " take your bread out of this , or i will not have a tooth in my head ; there 's another pair of them gone . " " well , honest man , " replied oonagh , " if you 're not able to eat the bread say so quietly , and do n't be awakening the child in the cradle there . there , now , he 's awake upon me ! " finn now gave a skirl that frightened the giant , as coming from such a youngster as he was represented to be . " mother , " said he , " i 'm hungry -- get me something to eat . " oonagh went over , and putting into his hand a cake that had no griddle in it -- finn , whose appetite in the meantime was sharpened by what he saw going forward , soon made it disappear . far rua was thunderstruck , and secretly thanked his stars that he had the good fortune to miss meeting finn , for , as he said to himself , i 'd have no chance with a man who could eat such bread as that , which even his son that 's in the cradle can munch before my eyes . " i 'd like to take a glimpse at the lad in the cradle , " said he to oonagh , " for i can tell you that the infant who can manage that nutriment is no joke to look at or to feed of a scarce summer . " 