" when will he be here ? " says she . " to - morrow , about two o'clock , " replied finn with a groan . " do n't be cast down , " said oonagh . " depend on me , and , maybe , i 'll bring you out of this scrape better than ever you could bring yourself . " this quieted finn 's heart very much , for he knew that oonagh was hand - and - glove with the fairies . indeed , to tell the truth , she was supposed to be a fairy herself . if she was , however , she must have been a kind - hearted one , for by all accounts she never did anything but good in the neighbourhood . now , it so happened that oonagh had a sister named granua living opposite to them , on the very top of cullamore , which i have mentioned already . this granua was quite as powerful as herself . the beautiful valley that lies between the granlisses is not more than three or four miles broad , so that of a summer evening granua and oonagh were able to hold many an agreeable conversation across it , from one hill - top to the other . upon this occasion oonagh resolved to consult her sister as to what was best to be done in the difficulty that surrounded them . " granua , " said she , " are you at home ? " " no , " said the other , " i 'm picking bilberries at althadhawan " ( the devil 's glen ) . " well , " said oonagh , " go up to the top of cullamore , look about you , and then tell us what you see . " " very well , " replied granua , after a few minutes ; " i am there now . " " what do you see ? " asked the other . " goodness be about us ! " exclaimed granua , " i see the biggest giant that ever was known coming up from dungannon . " " ay , " said oonagh , " there 's our difficulty . that 's far rua , and he 's comin ' up now to leather finn . what 's to be done ? " this relieved finn very much , for , after all , he had great confidence in his wife , knowing , as he did , that she had got him out of many a quandary before . the present , however , was the greatest of all ; but , still , he began to get courage and to eat his victuals as usual . oonagh then drew the nine woollen threads of different colours , which she always did to find out the best way of succeeding in anything of importance she went about . she then plaited them into three plaits , with three colours in each , putting one on her right arm , one round her heart , and the third round her right ankle , for then she knew that nothing could fail her that she undertook . having everything now prepared , she sent round to the neighbours and borrowed one - and - twenty iron griddles , which she took and kneaded into the hearts of one - and - twenty cakes of bread , and these she baked on the fire in the usual way , setting them aside in the cupboard according as they were done . she then put down a large pot of new milk , which she made into curds and whey , and gave finn due instructions how to use the curds when far rua should come . having done all this , she sat down quite contented waiting for his arrival on the next day about two o'clock , that being the hour at which he was expected -- for finn knew as much by the sucking of his thumb . now , this was a curious property that finn 's thumb had ; but notwithstanding all the wisdom and logic he used to suck out of it , it could never have stood to him here were it not for the wit of his wife . in this very thing , moreover , he was very much resembled by his great foe , far rua ; for it was well known that the huge strength that he possessed all lay in the middle finger of his right hand , and that if he happened by any chance to lose it , he was no more , notwithstanding his bulk , than a common man . 