it so happened that finn and his gigantic relatives were all working at the giant 's causeway in order to make a bridge , or , what was still better , a good stout pad - road across to scotland . finn , who was very fond of his wife , oonagh , took it into his head that he would go home and see how the poor woman got on in his absence . so accordingly he pulled up a fir - tree , and after lopping off the roots and branches , made a walking - stick of it and set out on his way to oonagh . finn lived at this time on knockmany hill , which faces cullamore , that rises up , half hill , half mountain , on the opposite side . the truth is that honest finn 's affection for his wife was by no manner of means the whole cause of his journey home . there was at that time another giant , named far rua -- some say he was irish and some say he was scotch -- but whether scotch or irish , sorrow doubt of it but he was a targer . no other giant of the day could stand before him . such was his strength that , when well vexed , he could give a stamp that shook the country about him . the fame and name of him went far and near , and nothing in the shape of a man , it was said , had any chance with him in a fight . whether the story is true or not i can not say , but the report went that by one blow of his fist he flattened a thunderbolt , and kept it in his pocket in the shape of a pancake to show to all his enemies when they were about to fight him . undoubtedly he had given every giant in ireland a considerable beating , barring finn m'coul himself . he swore that he would never rest night or day , winter or summer , till he could serve finn with the same sauce , if he could catch him . finn , however , had a strong disinclination to meet a giant who could make a young earthquake or flatten a thunderbolt when he was angry . accordingly he kept dodging about from place to place -- not much to his credit as a trojan , to be sure -- whenever he happened to get the hard word that far rua was on the scent of him . and the long and the short of it was that he heard far rua was coming to the causeway to have a trial of strength with him . he was , naturally enough , seized in consequence with a very warm and sudden fit of affection for his wife , who was delicate in her health , poor woman . she was leading , besides , a very lonely , uncomfortable life of it in his absence . " god save all here , " said finn good - humouredly , putting his honest face into his own door . " musha , finn , avick , an ' you 're welcome to your own oonagh , you darlin ' bully . " here followed a smack that it is said to have made the waters of the lake curl , as it were , with kindness and sympathy . 