it so happened that finn and his gigantic relatives were all working at the giant 's causeway in order to make a bridge , or , what was still better , a good stout pad - road across to scotland . finn , who was very fond of his wife , oonagh , took it into his head that he would go home and see how the poor woman got on in his absence . so accordingly he pulled up a fir - tree , and after lopping off the roots and branches , made a walking - stick of it and set out on his way to oonagh . finn lived at this time on knockmany hill , which faces cullamore , that rises up , half hill , half mountain , on the opposite side . the truth is that honest finn 's affection for his wife was by no manner of means the whole cause of his journey home . there was at that time another giant , named far rua -- some say he was irish and some say he was scotch -- but whether scotch or irish , sorrow doubt of it but he was a targer . no other giant of the day could stand before him . such was his strength that , when well vexed , he could give a stamp that shook the country about him . the fame and name of him went far and near , and nothing in the shape of a man , it was said , had any chance with him in a fight . whether the story is true or not i can not say , but the report went that by one blow of his fist he flattened a thunderbolt , and kept it in his pocket in the shape of a pancake to show to all his enemies when they were about to fight him . " faith , " said finn , " beautiful ; and how are you , oonagh -- and how did you sport your figure during my absence , my bilberry ? " " never a merrier -- as bouncing a grass widow as ever there was in sweet ' tyrone among the bushes . ' " finn gave a short , good - humoured cough . he laughed most heartily to show her how much he was delighted that she made herself happy in his absence . " an ' what brought you home so soon , finn ? " said she . " why , avourneen , " said finn , putting in his answer in the proper way , " never the thing but the purest of love and affection for yourself . sure , you know that 's truth , anyhow , oonagh . " finn spent two or three happy days with oonagh , and felt himself very comfortable considering the dread he had of far rua . this , however , grew upon him so much that his wife could not but perceive something lay on his mind which he kept altogether to himself . let a woman alone in the meantime for ferreting or wheedling a secret out of her good man when she wishes . finn was a proof of this . " it 's this far rua , " said he , " that 's troublin ' me . when the fellow gets angry and begins to stamp he 'll shake you a whole townland . it 's well known that he can stop a thunderbolt , for he always carries one about with him in the shape of a pancake to show to anyone that might misdoubt it . " as he spoke he clapped his thumb in his mouth , as he always did when he wanted to prophesy or to know anything . " he 's coming , " said finn . " i see him below at dungannon . " " an ' who is it , avick ? " " far rua , " replied finn , " and how to manage i do n't know . if i run away i am disgraced , and i know that sooner or later i must meet him , for my thumb tells me so . " 