they were just about to sit down to the table when the king walked in . ' i hope you have been attended to properly , ' said he , ' and that you will enjoy your dinner . my steward will take care you have all you want . i wish you to do exactly as you please . oh , by the bye , there is one thing ! you notice that soup - tureen in the middle of the table ? well , be careful on no account to lift the lid . if once you take off the cover , there is an end of your good fortune . ' then , bowing to his guests , he left the room . ' did you hear what he said ? ' inquired the charcoal - burner in an awe - stricken voice . ' we are to have what we want , and do what we please . only we must not touch the soup - tureen . ' ' no , of course we wo n't , ' answered the wife . ' why should we wish to ? but all the same it is rather odd . one ca n't help wondering what is inside . ' ' oh , nothing ; i did not feel inclined to talk , that was all ! ' she stopped , and added carelessly after a pause , ' do n't you ever wonder what is in that soup - tureen ? ' ' no , never , ' replied the man . ' it is no affair of ours , ' and the conversation dropped once more . as time went on , the woman spoke less and less , and seemed so wretched that her husband grew quite frightened about her . as to her food , she refused one thing after another . ' my dear wife , ' said the man at last , ' you really must eat something . what in the world is the matter with you ? if you go on like this you will die . ' ' i would rather die than not know what is in that tureen , ' she burst forth so violently that the husband was quite startled . ' is that it ? ' cried he ; ' are you making yourself miserable because of that ? why , you know we should be turned out of the palace , and sent away to starve . ' ' oh no , we should n't . the king is too good - natured . of course he did n't mean a little thing like this ! besides , there is no need to lift the lid off altogether . just raise one corner so that i may peep . we are quite alone : nobody will ever know . ' 