now when he had ridden a while he met a raven . he was lying in the road beating his wings , and unable to move from the spot because he was so starved . " o , dear friend , if you will give me a bite to eat , then i 'll help you in your hour of direst need ! " cried the raven . " i have not much food , nor are you likely to be able to help me much , " said the king 's son , " but still i can give you a little , for it is easy to see you need it . " and with that he gave the raven some of the provisions he had with him . and when he had ridden a while longer , he came to a brook . there lay a great salmon who had gotten on dry land , and was threshing about , and could not get back into the water . " o , dear friend , help me back into the water , " said the salmon to the king 's son , " and i will help you , too , in your hour of greatest need ! " " the help you will be able to give me will probably not amount to much , " said the prince , " but it would be a pity if you had to lie there and pine away . " and with that he pushed the fish back into the water . then he rode on a long , long way , and met a wolf . the wolf was so starved that he lay in the middle of the road , and writhed with hunger . " dear friend , let me eat your horse , " said the wolf . " my hunger is so great that my very inwards rattle , because i have had nothing to eat for the past two years ! " " no , " said the prince , " i can not do that : first i met a raven , and had to give him my provisions ; then i met a salmon and had to help him back into the water ; and now you want my horse . that will not do , for what shall i ride on then ? " " well , my dear friend , you must help me , " was the wolf 's reply . " you can ride on me . i will help you in turn in your hour of greatest need . " " the help you might give me would probably not amount to much ; but i will let you eat the horse , since you are in such sorry case , " returned the prince . and when the wolf had eaten the horse , the prince took the bit and put it in the wolf 's mouth , and fastened the saddle on his back . his meal had made the wolf so strong that he trotted off with the king 's son as fast as he could . he had never ridden so swiftly before . " when we have gone a little further i will show you the place where the giants live , " said the wolf . in a short time they were there . " well , this is where the giants live , " said the wolf . " there you see your six brothers , whom the giant turned into stone , and yonder are their six brides . up there is the door through which you must pass . " " no , i would not dare do that , " said the king 's son . " he would murder me . " " o no , " was the wolf 's reply , " when you go in you will find a princess , and she will tell you how to set about getting rid of the giant . you need only do as she says . " and the prince went in , though he was afraid . when he entered the house the giant was not there . in one of the rooms sat a princess , just as the wolf had said , and such a beautiful maiden the youth had never seen . " now may god help you , how did you get in here ? " cried the princess , when she saw him . " it is certain death for you . no one can kill the giant who lives here , for he has n't his heart about him . " the next morning the giant got up early , and went into the forest . no sooner had he gone than the prince and the king 's daughter set about looking for his heart in the wardrobe . yet no matter how much they looked , they did not find it . " well , well , " said the princess , " we will have to try once more . " then she adorned the wardrobe with flowers and wreaths , and toward evening the king 's youngest son again crawled under the bed . then the giant came : " hu hu , it smells of human flesh here ! " he cried . " yes , " said the princess . " a jackdaw just this moment flew by with a human bone in her beak , and she let it fall down the chimney . i threw it out again at once , but it may be that you can still smell it . " when the giant heard this , he had nothing further to say about it . but not long afterward he noticed that the wardrobe was adorned with flowers and wreaths , and asked who had done it . " i , " said the princess . " what do you mean by such tomfoolery ? " asked the giant . " o , i am so fond of you that i had to do it , since i know that is where your heart lies , " was the reply of the princess . " are you really so stupid as to believe that ? " cried the giant . " yes , surely , i must believe it , " said the princess , " when you tell me so . " " how silly you are , " said the giant , " you could never reach the place where i keep my heart . " " but still i would like to know where it is , " answered the princess . then the giant could no longer resist , and at last had to tell her the truth . " far , far away , in a lake there lies an island , " said he , " and on the island stands a church , and in the church there is a well , and in the well floats a duck , and in the duck there is an egg , and in the egg it is my heart ! " 