" well , since i do happen to be here , i will at least make the attempt , " said the prince . " and i want to try to deliver my brothers , who stand outside , turned to stone , and i would like to save you as well . " " well , if you insist upon it , we must see what we can do , " replied the princess . " now you must crawl under the bed here , and must listen carefully when i talk to the giant . but you must not make a sound . " the prince slipped under the bed , and no sooner was he there than the giant came home . " hu , it smells like the flesh of a christian here ! " he cried . " yes , " said the princess , " a jackdaw flew by with a human bone , and let it fall down the chimney . i threw it out again at once , but the odor does not disappear so quickly . " then the giant said no more about it . toward evening he went to bed , but after he had lain there a while , the princess , who sat looking out of the window , said : " there is something i would have asked you about long ago , if only i had dared . " " and what may that be ? " inquired the giant . " i would like to know where you keep your heart , since you do not have it about you ? " said the princess . " o , that is something you need not ask about ; at any rate , it lies under the threshold of the door , " was the giant 's reply . " aha , " thought the prince under the bed , " that is where we will find it ! " the next morning the giant got up very early , and went into the forest . no sooner had he gone than the prince and the king 's daughter set about looking for the heart under the threshold of the door . yet no matter how much they dug and searched they found nothing . " this time he has fooled us , " said the princess . " we 'll have to try again . " and she picked the loveliest flowers she could find and strewed them over the threshold which they had put to rights again and when the time drew near for the giant 's return , the king 's son crept under the bed once more . when he was beneath it , the giant came . " hu hu , i smell human flesh ! " he cried . " yes , " said the princess . " a jackdaw flew by with a human bone in her beak , and she let it fall down the chimney . i threw it out at once , but i suppose one can still smell it . " then the giant held his tongue , and said no more about it . after a time he asked who had strewn the flowers over the threshold . " o , i did that , " said the princess . " what does it mean ? " the giant then asked . " o , i am so fond of you that i had to do it , because i know that is where your heart lies . " " yes , of course , " said the giant , " but it does not happen to lie there at all . " 