once upon a time there was a king who had seven sons . he was so fond of them that he never could bear to have them all away from him at once . one of them always had to stay with him . when they had grown up , six of them were to go forth and look for wives . the youngest the king wanted to keep at home , and the others were to bring along a bride for him . the king gave the six the handsomest clothes that had ever been seen , clothes that glittered from afar . each received a horse that had cost many hundred dollars , and so they set forth . and after they had been at the courts of many kings , and had seen many princesses , they at last came to a king who had six daughters . such beautiful princesses they had not as yet met with . each of them paid court to one of them , and when each had won his sweetheart , they rode back home again . but they were so deeply in love with their brides that they altogether forgot they were also to bring back a princess for their young brother who had stayed at home . now when they had already covered a good bit of the homeward road , they passed close to a steep cliff - side where the giants dwelt . and a giant came out , looked at them , and turned them all to stone , princes and princesses . the king waited and waited for his six sons . though he waited and yearned , they did not come . then he grew very sad , and said that he would never really be happy again . " if i did not have you , " he told his youngest , " i would not keep on living , so sad am i at having lost your brothers . " " but i had already been thinking of asking your permission to set out and find my brothers again , " said the youngest . " no , that i will not allow under any circumstances , " answered the father , " otherwise you will be lost to me into the bargain . " but the youth 's mind was set on going , and he pleaded so long that finally the king had to let him have his way . now the king had only a wretched old nag for him , since the six other princes and their suite had been given all the good horses . that did not worry the youngest . he mounted the shabby old nag , and " farewell , father ! " he said to the king . " i will surely return , and perhaps i will bring my six brothers back with me . " and with that he rode off . 