" dear friend , let me eat your horse , " said the wolf . " my hunger is so great that my very inwards rattle , because i have had nothing to eat for the past two years ! " " no , " said the prince , " i can not do that : first i met a raven , and had to give him my provisions ; then i met a salmon and had to help him back into the water ; and now you want my horse . that will not do , for what shall i ride on then ? " " well , my dear friend , you must help me , " was the wolf 's reply . " you can ride on me . i will help you in turn in your hour of greatest need . " " the help you might give me would probably not amount to much ; but i will let you eat the horse , since you are in such sorry case , " returned the prince . and when the wolf had eaten the horse , the prince took the bit and put it in the wolf 's mouth , and fastened the saddle on his back . his meal had made the wolf so strong that he trotted off with the king 's son as fast as he could . he had never ridden so swiftly before . " when we have gone a little further i will show you the place where the giants live , " said the wolf . in a short time they were there . " well , this is where the giants live , " said the wolf . " there you see your six brothers , whom the giant turned into stone , and yonder are their six brides . up there is the door through which you must pass . " " no , i would not dare do that , " said the king 's son . " he would murder me . " " o no , " was the wolf 's reply , " when you go in you will find a princess , and she will tell you how to set about getting rid of the giant . you need only do as she says . " and the prince went in , though he was afraid . when he entered the house the giant was not there . in one of the rooms sat a princess , just as the wolf had said , and such a beautiful maiden the youth had never seen . " now may god help you , how did you get in here ? " cried the princess , when she saw him . " it is certain death for you . no one can kill the giant who lives here , for he has n't his heart about him . "