the sheep did not like this very well , for every once in a while the shears would pull the wool and hurt them ; and when they were sheared they felt very strange , for it was almost as if someone took off all your clothes and let you run around naked . none of them were in a very good temper this morning , although the sun shone so warmly and the grass was so sweet , and as they watched the farmer and his man carry their wool up to the house in great bags , the old ram said , crossly , " i hope they are satisfied , now that they have stolen from us all our soft , warm fleece . " " what are they going to do with it ? " asked one of the sheep . " oh , they will spin it into threads and make coats for the men and dresses for the women . for men are such strange creatures that no wool grows on them at all , and that is why they selfishly rob us of our fleece that they may cover their own skinny bodies ! " " it must be horrid to be a man , " said the black sheep , " and not to have any wool grow on you at all . i 'm sorry for that little boy that lives in the lane , for he will never be able to keep warm unless we give him some of our wool . " " but what a shame it is , " continued the ram , " for the farmer to steal all the wool from us when we have taken all the trouble to grow it ! " " i am getting along finely , " the black sheep would answer , " for not one sheep in the pasture has so much wool as i have grown already . " " can i do anything to help you ? " asked the little boy . " not that i think of , " replied the sheep , " unless you could get me a little salt . i believe salt helps the wool to grow . " so the boy ran to the house and begged his mother for a handful of salt , and then he came back to the bars , where the black sheep licked it out of his hand . day by day the wool on the sheep grew longer and longer , and even the old ram noticed it and said , " you are foolish to grow so much wool , for the farmer will cut it all off , and it will do you no good . now i am growing just as little as possible , for since he steals what i have i am determined he shall get very little wool from my back . " 