" what will they do with it , black sheep ? " enquired the little boy . " they will make coats of it , to keep themselves warm . " " i wish i had some wool , " said the boy , " for i need a new coat very badly , and mamma is so poor she can not buy me one . " " that is too bad , " replied the black sheep ; " but i shall have more wool by and by , and then i will give you a bagful to make a new coat from . " " will you really ? " asked the boy , looking very much pleased . " indeed i will , " answered the sheep , " for you are always kind and have a pleasant word for me . so you watch until my wool grows again , and then you shall have your share of it . " " oh , thank you ! " said the boy , and he ran away to tell his mother what the black sheep had said . when the farmer came into the field again the black sheep said to him , " master , how many bags of wool did you cut from my back ? " " two bags full , " replied the farmer ; " and it was very nice wool indeed . " " if i grow three bags full the next time , may i have one bag for myself ? " asked the sheep . " why , what could you do with a bag of wool ? " questioned the farmer . " i want to give it to the little boy that lives in the lane . he is very poor and needs a new coat . " " very well , " answered the master ; " if you can grow three bags full i will give one to the little boy . " so the black sheep began to grow wool , and tried in every way to grow the finest and heaviest fleece in all the flock . she always lay in the sunniest part of the pastures , and drank from the clearest part of the brook , and ate only the young and juicy shoots of grass and the tenderest of the sheep - sorrel . and each day the little boy came to the bars and looked at the sheep and enquired how the wool was growing . " that is fine ! " said the boy ; " but who are the three bags for ? " " one for my master , one for his dame , and one for the little boy that lives in the lane . " " thank you , black sheep , " said the little boy ; " you are very kind , and i shall always think of you when i wear my new coat . " the next day the sheep were all sheared , and the black sheep 's fleece made three big bagsful . the farmer kept his promise and carried one bag to the little boy that lived in the lane , and the wool was so soft and so heavy that there was enough not only for the new coat , but to make his mother a warm dress as well . the black sheep was very proud and happy when the mother and her little boy came down to the bars and showed the new clothes that had been made from the wool . " this pays me for all my trouble , " said the black sheep , and the little boy reached his hand through the bars and patted her gently upon the head . 