then the door was opened to him , and he went in , and rested the whole night long on his soft bed . the next morning the hunt began anew , and when the fawn heard the hunting - horns and the tally - ho of the huntsmen he could rest no longer , and said , " little sister , let me out , i must go . " the sister opened the door and said , " now , mind you must come back at night and say the same words . " when the king and his hunters saw the fawn with the golden collar again , they chased him closely , but he was too nimble and swift for them . this lasted the whole day , and at last the hunters surrounded him , and one of them wounded his foot a little , so that he was obliged to limp and to go slowly . then a hunter slipped after him to the little house , and heard how he called out , " little sister , let me in , " and saw the door open and shut again after him directly . the hunter noticed all this carefully , went to the king , and told him all he had seen and heard . then said the king , " to - morrow we will hunt again . " but the sister was very terrified when she saw that her fawn was wounded . she washed his foot , laid cooling leaves round it , and said , " lie down on your bed , dear fawn , and rest , that you may be soon well . " the wound was very slight , so that the fawn felt nothing of it the next morning . and when he heard the noise of the hunting outside , he said , " i can not stay in , i must go after them ; i shall not be taken easily again ! " the sister began to weep , and said , " i know you will be killed , and i left alone here in the forest , and forsaken of everybody . i can not let you go ! " " then i shall die here with longing , " answered the fawn ; " when i hear the sound of the horn i feel as if i should leap out of my skin . " then the sister , seeing there was no help for it , unlocked the door with a heavy heart , and the fawn bounded away into the forest , well and merry . when the king saw him , he said to his hunters , " now , follow him up all day long till the night comes , and see that you do him no hurt . " 