now there came on a dreadful storm , and the flowers of the field folded their leaves or bent their heads as it passed over them . the buckwheat flower alone stood erect in all its pride . " bow your heads , as we do , " called the flowers . " there is no need for me to do that , " answered the buckwheat . " bow your head as we do , " said the grain . " the angel of storms comes flying hither . he has wings that reach from the clouds to the earth ; he will smite you before you have time to beg for mercy . " " but i do not choose to bow down , " said the buckwheat . " close your flowers and fold your leaves , " said the old willow . " do not look at the lightning when the cloud breaks . even human beings dare not do that , for in the midst of the lightning one may look straight into god 's heaven . the sight strikes human beings blind , so dazzling is it . what would not happen to us , mere plants of the field , who are so much humbler , if we should dare do so ? " " so much humbler ! indeed ! if there is a chance , i shall look right into god 's heaven . " and in its pride and haughtiness it did so . the flashes of lightning were so awful that it seemed as if the whole world were in flames . when the tempest was over , both the grain and the flowers , greatly refreshed by the rain , again stood erect in the pure , quiet air . but the buckwheat had been burned as black as a cinder by the lightning and stood in the field like a dead , useless weed . the old willow waved his branches to and fro in the wind , and large drops of water fell from his green leaves , as if he were shedding tears . the sparrows asked : " why are you weeping when all around seems blest ? do you not smell the sweet perfume of flowers and bushes ? the sun shines , and the clouds have passed from the sky . why do you weep , old tree ? " then the willow told them of the buckwheat 's stubborn pride and of the punishment which followed . i , who tell this tale , heard it from the sparrows . they told it to me one evening when i had asked them for a story . 