when they reached this table the stranger turned to him . he said , with great dignity , " thou hast heard , good man , of thomas of ercildoune -- thomas the rhymer , as men call him . he who went to dwell for a time with the queen of fairy - land , and from her received the gifts of truth and prophecy ? " canonbie dick nodded ; for as the wonderful soothsayer 's name fell on his ears , his heart sank within him and his tongue seemed to cleave to the roof of his mouth . if he had been brought there to parley with thomas the rhymer , then had he laid himself open to all the eldrich powers of darkness . " i that speak to you am he , " went on the white - haired stranger . " and i have permitted thee thus to have thy desire and follow me hither in order that i may try of what stuff thou art made . before thee lies a horn and a sword . he that will sound the one , or draw the other , shall , if his courage fail not , be king over the whole of britain . i , thomas the rhymer , have spoken it . as thou knowest , my tongue can not lie . but list ye , the outcome of it all depends on thy bravery . it will be a light task , or a heavy , according as thou layest hand on sword or horn first . " now dick was more versed in giving blows than in making music . his first impulse was to seize the sword , then , come what might , he had something in his hand to defend himself with . but just as he was about to lift it the thought struck him that , if the place were full of spirits , as he felt sure that it must be , this action of him might be taken to mean defiance . this might cause them to band themselves together against him . so , changing his mind , he picked up the horn with a trembling hand . he blew a blast upon it , which , however , was so weak and feeble that it could scarce be heard at the other end of the hall . the result that followed was enough to appal the stoutest heart . thunder rolled in crashing peals through the immense hall . the charmed knights and their horses woke in an instant from their enchanted sleep . the knights sprang to their feet and seized their swords , brandishing them round their heads . their great black chargers stamped , and snorted , and ground their bits , as if eager to escape from their stalls . and where a moment before all had been stillness and silence , there was now a scene of wild din and excitement . 