her godmother only just touched her with her wand , and , at the same instant , her clothes were turned into cloth of gold and silver , all beset with jewels . this done , she gave her a pair of glass slippers , the prettiest in the whole world . being thus decked out , she got up into her coach ; but her godmother , above all things , commanded her not to stay till after midnight , telling her , at the same time , that if she stayed one moment longer , the coach would be a pumpkin again , her horses mice , her coachman a rat , her footmen lizards , and her clothes become just as they were before . the next day the two sisters were at the ball , and so was cinderella , but dressed more magnificently than before . the king 's son was always by her , and never ceased his compliments and kind speeches to her ; to whom all this was so far from being tiresome that she quite forgot what her godmother had recommended to her ; so that she , at last , counted the clock striking twelve when she took it to be no more than eleven ; she then rose up and fled , as nimble as a deer . the prince followed , but could not overtake her . she left behind one of her glass slippers , which the prince took up most carefully . she got home but quite out of breath , and in her nasty old clothes , having nothing left her of all her finery but one of the little slippers , fellow to that she dropped . the guards at the palace gate were asked : if they had not seen a princess go out . who said : they had seen nobody go out but a young girl , very meanly dressed , and who had more the air of a poor country wench than a gentlewoman . when the two sisters returned from the ball cinderella asked them : if they had been well diverted , and if the fine lady had been there . they told her : yes , but that she hurried away immediately when it struck twelve , and with so much haste that she dropped one of her little glass slippers , the prettiest in the world , which the king 's son had taken up ; that he had done nothing but look at her all the time at the ball , and that most certainly he was very much in love with the beautiful person who owned the glass slipper . 