as the goat flew upward , the comrade swung himself up in back , and then they were off like the wind through the clouds : it was not a long journey . suddenly they stood before a wall of rock , she knocked , and then they took their way into the interior of the hill , to the troll who was her dearest . " and now a new suitor has come who wants to win me , sweetheart , " said she . " he is young and handsome , but i will have none but you , " she went on , and made a great time over the troll . " i have set him a test , and here are the shears that he was to keep and guard . you shall keep them now ! " then both of them laughed as though the youth had already lost his head . " yes , i will keep them , and take good care of them , and a kiss from you shall pledge the truth , when crows are cawing around the youth ! " said the troll . he laid the shears in an iron chest with three locks . but at the moment he was dropping the shears into the chest , the comrade caught them up . none could see him , for he was wearing the three - sisters hat . so the troll carefully locked the empty chest , and put the key into a hollow double - tooth , where he kept other magic things . " the suitor could hardly find it there , " said he . the princess grew as pale as a corpse . she made the best of a bad bargain , and said that he had done well . now there was only one more little test for him to undergo . " if you can bring me what i am thinking about by to - morrow noon , then you may have me and keep me . " the youth felt as though he had been condemned to death . it seemed altogether impossible for him to know of what the princess was thinking , and still more impossible to bring her the thing in question . and when he came to his room his comrade could scarcely quiet him . he said he would take the matter in hand , as he had done on the other occasions , and at last the youth grew calmer , and lay down to sleep . in the meantime the comrade went to the smith , and had him weld an additional twenty - four pounds of iron on his sword . when this had been done , he went to the stable , and gave the goat such a smashing blow between the horns that he flew to the other side of the wall . 