and when the dark night was coming on , conchubar said to his people , " it is best for us to unyoke the chariots now , and to look for some place where we can spend the night . " then fergus went forward to look for some place , and what he came to was a very small poor - looking house . a man and a woman were in it , and when they saw him they said , " bring your companions here along with you , and they will be welcome . " fergus went back to his companions and told them what he had seen . but bricriu said : " where is the use of going into a house like that , with neither room nor provisions nor coverings in it . it is not worth our while to be going there . " then bricriu went on himself to the place where the house was . but when he came to it , what he saw was a grand , new , well - lighted house . at the door there was a young man wearing armour , very tall and handsome and shining . and he said , " come into the house , bricriu . why are you looking about you ? " and there was a young woman beside him , fine and noble , and with curled hair , and she said , " surely there is a welcome before you from me . " " why does she welcome me ? " said bricriu . " it is on account of her that i myself welcome you , " said the young man . " and is there no one missing from you at emain ? " he said . " there is , surely , " said bricriu . " we are missing fifty young girls for the length of a year . " " would you know them again if you saw them ? " said the young man . " if i would not know them , " said bricriu , " it is because a year might make a change in them , so that i would not be sure . " " try and know them again , " said the man , " for the fifty young girls are in this house , and this woman beside me is their mistress , dechtire . it was they themselves , changed into birds , that went to emain macha to bring you here . " then dechtire gave bricriu a purple cloak with gold fringes . he went back to find his companions . but while he was going he thought to himself , " conchubar would give great treasure to find these fifty young girls again , and his sister along with them . i will not tell him i have found them . i will only say i have found a house with beautiful women in it , and no more than that . " when conchubar saw bricriu he asked news of him . " what news do you bring back with you , bricriu ? " he said . " i came to a fine well - lighted house , " said bricriu . " i saw a queen , noble , kind , with royal looks , with curled hair . i saw a troop of women , beautiful , well dressed . i saw the man of the house , tall and open - handed and shining . " " let us go there for the night , " said conchubar . so they brought their chariots and their horses and their arms . they were hardly in the house when every sort of food and of drink , some they knew and some they did not know , was put before them , so that they never spent a better night . and when they had eaten and drunk and began to be satisfied , conchubar said to the young man , " where is the mistress of the house that she does not come to bid us welcome ? " " you can not see her to - night , " said he , " for she is in the pains of childbirth . " 