little i knew the trick he was going to serve me . up , up , up -- god knows how far he flew . ' why , then , ' said i to him -- thinking he did not know the right road home -- very civilly , because why ? i was in his power entirely ; ' sir , ' says i , ' please your honour 's glory , and with humble submission to your better judgment , if you 'd fly down a bit , you 're now just over my cabin , and i could be put down there , and many thanks to your worship . ' ' arrah , dan , ' says he , ' do you think me a fool ? look down in the next field , and do n't you see two men and a gun ? by my word , it would be no joke to shoot this way , to oblige a drunken blackguard that i picked up off a could stone in a bog . ' ' bother you , ' says i to myself , but i did not speak out , for where was the use ? well , sir , up he kept flying , flying , and i asking him every minute to fly down , and all to no use . ' where in the world are you going , sir ? ' says i to him . ' hold your tongue , dan , ' says he , ' and mind your own business , and do n't be interfering with the business of other people . ' ' faith , this is my business , i think , ' says i. ' be quiet , dan ! ' says he : so i said no more . at last , where should we come to but to the moon itself . now , you ca n't see it from this , but there is , or there was in my time , a reaping - hook sticking out of the side of the moon , this way ( drawing the figure thus on the ground with the end of his stick ) . ' dan , ' says the eagle , ' i 'm tired with this long fly ; i had no notion it was so far . ' ' and my lord , sir , ' says i , ' who in the world axed you to fly so far -- was it i ? did not i beg and pray and beseech you to stop half an hour ago ? ' ' there 's no use talking , dan , ' said he ; ' i 'm tired bad enough , so you must get off , and sit down on the moon until i rest myself . ' ' is it sit down on the moon ? ' said i ; ' is it upon that little round thing , then ? why , then , sure , i 'd fall off in a minute , and be kilt and spilt , and smashed all to bits ; you are a vile deceiver -- so you are . ' ' not at all , dan , ' says he ; ' you can catch fast hold of the reaping - hook that 's sticking out of the side of the moon , and it will keep you up . ' ' i wo n't , then , ' said i. ' maybe not , ' said he , quite quiet . ' if you do n't , my man , i shall just give you a shake , and one slap of my wing , and send you down to the ground , where every bone in your body will be smashed as small as a drop of dew on a cabbage - leaf in the morning . ' ' why , then , i 'm in a fine way , ' said i to myself , ' ever to have come along with the likes of you ' ; and so , giving him a hearty curse in irish , for fear he 'd know what i said , i got off his back with a heavy heart , took hold of the reaping - hook and sat down upon the moon , and a mighty cold seat it was , i can tell you that . when he had me there fairly landed , he turned about on me , and said , ' good morning to you , daniel o'rourke , ' said he ; ' i think i 've nicked you fairly now . you robbed my nest last year ' ( it was true enough for him , but how he found it out is hard enough to say ) , ' and in return you are freely welcome to cool your heels dangling upon the moon like a cockthrow . ' ' is that all , and is this how you leave me , you brute , you , ' says i. ' you ugly unnatural baste , and is this the way you serve me at last ? bad luck to yourself , with your hook'd nose , and to all your breed , you blackguard . ' it was all to no manner of use ; he spread out his great big wings , burst out a laughing , and flew away like lightning . i bawled after him to stop ; but i might have called and bawled for ever , without his minding me . away he went , and i never saw him from that day to this -- sorrow fly away with him ! you may be sure i was in a disconsolate condition , and kept roaring out for the bare grief , when all at once a door opened right in the middle of the moon , creaking on its hinges as if it had not been opened for a month before -- i suppose they never thought of greasing them -- and out there walks -- who do you think but the man in the moon himself ? i knew him by his bush . ' good morrow to you , daniel o'rourke , ' says he , ' how do you do ? ' ' very well , thank your honour , ' says i. ' i hope your honour 's well . ' ' what brought you here , dan ? ' said he . so i told him how i was a little overtaken in liquor at the master 's , and how i was cast on a dissolute island , and how i lost my way in the bog , and the thief of an eagle promised to fly me out of it , and how , instead of that , he had fled me up to the moon . 