little i knew the trick he was going to serve me . up , up , up -- god knows how far he flew . ' why , then , ' said i to him -- thinking he did not know the right road home -- very civilly , because why ? i was in his power entirely ; ' sir , ' says i , ' please your honour 's glory , and with humble submission to your better judgment , if you 'd fly down a bit , you 're now just over my cabin , and i could be put down there , and many thanks to your worship . ' ' arrah , dan , ' says he , ' do you think me a fool ? look down in the next field , and do n't you see two men and a gun ? by my word , it would be no joke to shoot this way , to oblige a drunken blackguard that i picked up off a could stone in a bog . ' ' bother you , ' says i to myself , but i did not speak out , for where was the use ? well , sir , up he kept flying , flying , and i asking him every minute to fly down , and all to no use . ' where in the world are you going , sir ? ' says i to him . ' hold your tongue , dan , ' says he , ' and mind your own business , and do n't be interfering with the business of other people . ' ' faith , this is my business , i think , ' says i. ' be quiet , dan ! ' says he : so i said no more . at last , where should we come to but to the moon itself . now , you ca n't see it from this , but there is , or there was in my time , a reaping - hook sticking out of the side of the moon , this way ( drawing the figure thus on the ground with the end of his stick ) . ' dan , ' says the eagle , ' i 'm tired with this long fly ; i had no notion it was so far . ' ' and my lord , sir , ' says i , ' who in the world axed you to fly so far -- was it i ? did not i beg and pray and beseech you to stop half an hour ago ? ' ' there 's no use talking , dan , ' said he ; ' i 'm tired bad enough , so you must get off , and sit down on the moon until i rest myself . ' ' is it sit down on the moon ? ' said i ; ' is it upon that little round thing , then ? why , then , sure , i 'd fall off in a minute , and be kilt and spilt , and smashed all to bits ; you are a vile deceiver -- so you are . ' ' not at all , dan , ' says he ; ' you can catch fast hold of the reaping - hook that 's sticking out of the side of the moon , and it will keep you up . ' ' i wo n't , then , ' said i. ' maybe not , ' said he , quite quiet . 