' dan , ' said the man in the moon , taking a pinch of snuff , when i was done , ' you must not stay here . ' ' indeed , sir , ' says i , ' it is much against my will that i 'm here at all ; but how am i to go back ? ' ' that 's your business , ' said he ; ' dan , mine is to tell you that you must not stay , so be off in less than no time . ' ' i 'm doing no harm , ' said i , ' only holding on hard by the reaping - hook lest i fall off . ' ' that 's what you must not do , dan , ' says he . ' pray , sir , ' says i , ' may i ask how many you are in family that you would not give a poor traveller lodging ? i 'm sure it is not often you 're troubled with strangers coming to see you , for it is a long way . ' ' i 'm by myself , dan , ' says he , ' but you 'd better let go the reaping - hook . ' ' faith , and with your leave , ' says i , ' i 'll not let go the grip , and the more you bids me the more i wo n't let go -- so i will . ' ' you had better , dan , ' says he again . ' why , then , my little fellow , ' says i , taking the whole weight of him with my eye from head to foot , ' there are two words to that bargain ; and i 'll not budge -- you may , if you like . ' ' we 'll see how that is to be , ' says he ; and back he went , giving the door such a great bang after him ( for it was plain he was huffed ) , that i thought the moon and all would fall down with it . well , i was preparing myself to try strength with him , when back he comes , with the kitchen cleaver in his hand , and without saying a word he gives two bangs to the handle of the reaping - hook that was holding me up , and whap it came in two . ' good morning to you , dan , ' says the spiteful little blackguard , when he saw me cleanly falling down with a bit of the handle in my hand ; ' i thank you for your visit , and fair weather after you , daniel . ' i had no time to make any answer to him , for i was tumbling over and over , and rolling and rolling , at the rate of a fox - hunt . ' god help me ! ' says i , ' but this is a pretty pickle for a decent man to be seen in at this time of the night . i am now sold fairly . ' the word was not out of my mouth , when , whiz ! what should fly by close to my ear but a flock of wild geese , all the way from my own bog of ballyasheenagh , else how should they know me ? 