the ould gander , who was their general , turning about his head , cried out to me , ' is that you , dan ? ' ' the same , ' said i , not a bit daunted now at what he said , for i was by this time used to all kinds of bedivilment , and , besides , i knew him of ould . ' good morrow to you , ' says he , ' daniel o'rourke ; how are you in health this morning ? ' ' very well , sir , ' says i , ' thank you kindly , ' drawing my breath , for i was mightily in want of some , ' i hope your honour 's the same . ' ' i think it is falling you are , daniel , ' says he . ' you may say that , sir , ' says i. ' and where are you going all the way so fast ? ' said the gander . so i told him how i had taken the drop , and how i came on the island , and how i lost my way in the bog , and how the thief of an eagle flew me up to the moon , and how the man in the moon turned me out . ' dan , ' said he , ' i 'll save you ; put out your hand and catch me by the leg , and i 'll fly you home . ' ' sweet is your hand in a pitcher of honey , my jewel , ' says i , though all the time i thought within myself that i do n't much trust you ; but there was no help , so i caught the gander by the leg , and away i and the other geese flew after him as fast as hops . we flew , and we flew , and we flew , until we came right over the wide ocean . i knew it well , for i saw cape clear to my right hand , sticking up out of the water . ' ah , my lord , ' said i to the goose , for i thought it best to keep a civil tongue in my head anyway , ' fly to land , if you please . ' ' it is impossible , you see , dan , ' said he , ' for a while , because , you see , we are going to arabia . ' ' to arabia ! ' said i , ' that 's surely some place in foreign parts , far away . oh ! mr . goose , why , then , to be sure , i 'm a man to be pitied among you . ' ' whist , whist , you fool , ' said he , ' hold your tongue ; i tell you arabia is a very decent sort of place , as like west carbery as one egg is like another , only there is a little more sand there . ' just as we were talking a ship hove in sight , sailing so beautiful before the wind . ' ah , then , sir , ' said i , ' will you drop me on the ship , if you please ? ' ' we are not fair over it , ' said he ; ' if i dropped you now you would go splash into the sea . ' ' i would not , ' says i , ' i know better than that , for it is just clean under us , so let me drop now at once . ' 