the maiden now rode for many days and weeks , and it took a long , long time before she came to the east wind . but at last she did find him.then she asked the east wind whether he could show her the road that led to the prince who lived in the castle that was east of the sun and west of the moon . o , yes , he had heard tell of the prince , and of the castle as well , said the east wind . but he did not know the road that led to it , for he had never blown so far . " but if you wish , i will take you to my brother , the west wind , and perhaps he can tell you , for he is much stronger than i am . just sit down on my back , and i will carry you to him . " the maiden did as he told her , and then they moved swiftly away . when they came to the west wind , the east wind said that here he was bringing the maiden whom the prince who lived in the castle that lay east of the sun and west of the moon had wanted to marry . he said that she was journeying on her way to him , and looking for him everywhere . he said that he had accompanied her in order to find out whether the west wind knew where this castle might be . " no , " said the west wind to the maiden , " i have never blown so far , but if you wish i will take you to the south wind , who is much stronger than both of us . he has traveled far and wide , and perhaps he can tell you . seat yourself on my back , and i will carry you to him . " the maiden did so , and then they flew quickly off to the south wind . when they found him , the west wind asked whether the south wind could show them the road that led to the castle that lay east of the sun and west of the moon . he also said that this was the maiden who was to have the prince . " well , well , so this is the girl ? " cried the south wind . " yes , it is true that i have gone about a good deal during my life , " said he , " yet i have never blown so far . but if you wish , i will take you to my brother , the north wind . he is the oldest and strongest of us all . if he does not know where the castle lies , then no one in the whole world can tell you . seat yourself on my back , and i will carry you to him . " the maiden seated herself on the back of the south wind , and he flew away with a roar and a rush . the journey did not take long . when they had reached the dwelling of the north wind , the latter was so wild and unmannerly that he blew a cold blast at them while they were still a good way off . " what do you want ? " cried he , as soon as he caught sight of them , so that a cold shiver ran down their backs . " you should not greet us so rudely , " said the south wind . " it is i , the south wind . and this is the maiden who wanted to marry the prince who lives in the castle that lies east of the sun and west of the moon . she wishes to ask you whether you have ever been there , and if you can show her the road that leads to it . she would like to find the prince again . " " o , yes , i know very well where the castle lies , " said the north wind . " i blew an aspen leaf there just once , and then i was so weary that i could not blow at all for many a long day . but if you want to get there above all things , and are not afraid of me , i will take you on my back , and see whether i can blow you there . " the maiden said that she must and would get to the castle , if it were by any means possible . she was not afraid , no matter how hard the journey might be . " very well , then you must stay here over night , " said the north wind . " for if we are to get there to - morrow , we must have the whole day before us . " 