when the maiden awoke the next morning , the prince as well as the castle had disappeared . she lay in a green opening in the midst of a thick , dark wood , and beside her lay the bundle of poor belongings she had brought from home . and when she had rubbed the sleep out of her eyes , and had cried her fill , she set out and wandered many , many days , until at last she came to a great hill . and before the hill sat an old woman who was playing with a golden apple . the maiden asked the woman whether she did not know which road led to the prince who lived in the castle that was east of the sun and west of the moon , and who was to marry a princess with a nose three yards long . " how do you come to know him ? " asked the woman . " are you , perhaps , the maiden he wanted to marry ? " " yes , i am that maiden , " she replied . " so you are that girl , " said the woman . " well , my child , i am sorry to say that all i know of him is that he lives in the castle that is east of the sun and west of the moon , and that you will probably never get there . but i will loan you my horse , on which you may ride to my neighbor , and perhaps she can tell you . and when you get there just give the horse a blow back of his left ear , and order him to go home . and here , take this golden apple along ! " the maiden mounted the horse , and rode a long , long time . at length she again came to a hill , before which sat an old woman with a golden reel . the maiden asked whether she could not tell her the road which led to the castle that lay east of the sun and west of the moon . this woman said just what the other had , no , she knew no more of the castle than that it lay east of the sun and west of the moon . " and , " said she , " you will probably never get there . but i will loan you my horse to ride to the nearest neighbor . perhaps she can tell you . and when you have reached her just give the horse a blow back of his left ear , and order him to go home again . " and finally she gave the maiden the golden reel , for , said the old woman , it might be useful to her . the maiden then mounted the horse , and again rode a long , long time . at length she once more came to a great hill , before which sat an old woman spinning at a golden spindle . then the maiden once more asked after the prince , and the castle that lay east of the sun and west of the moon . and everything happened exactly as on the two previous occasions . " do you happen to be the maiden the prince wanted to marry ? " asked the old woman . " yes , i am that maiden , " answered the maiden . but this old woman knew no more about the road than the two others . " yes , the castle lies east of the sun and west of the moon , that i know , " said she . " and you will probably never get there . but i will loan you my horse , and you may ride on it to the east wind and ask him . perhaps he is acquainted there , and can blow you thither . and when you reach him , just give my horse a blow back of the left ear , and then he will return here of his own accord . " finally the old woman gave her her golden spindle . " perhaps it may be useful to you , " said she . 