when they reached home , and the maiden had gone to bed , all went as usual : a man came in and cast himself down in a corner of the room . but in the night , when she heard him sleeping soundly , she stood up and lighted the candle . she threw the light on him , and saw the handsomest prince one might wish to see . and she liked him so exceedingly well that she thought she would be unable to keep on living if she could not kiss him that very minute . she did so , but by mistake she let three hot drops of tallow fall on him , and he awoke . " alas , what have you done ! " cried he . " now you have made both of us unhappy . if you had only held out until the end of the year , i would have been delivered . i have a step - mother who has cast a spell on me , so that by day i am a bear , and at night a human being . but now all is over between us , and i must return to my step - mother . she lives in a castle that is east of the sun and west of the moon , where there is a princess with a nose three yards long , whom i must now marry . " the maiden wept and wailed to no avail , for the prince said he must journey away . then she asked him whether she might not go with him . no , said he , that could not be . " but can you not at least tell me the road , so that i can search for you . for surely that will be permitted me ? " " yes , that you may do , " said he . " but there is no road that leads there . the castle lies east of the sun and west of the moon , and neither now nor at any other time will you find the road to it ! " when the maiden awoke the next morning , the prince as well as the castle had disappeared . she lay in a green opening in the midst of a thick , dark wood , and beside her lay the bundle of poor belongings she had brought from home . and when she had rubbed the sleep out of her eyes , and had cried her fill , she set out and wandered many , many days , until at last she came to a great hill . and before the hill sat an old woman who was playing with a golden apple . the maiden asked the woman whether she did not know which road led to the prince who lived in the castle that was east of the sun and west of the moon , and who was to marry a princess with a nose three yards long . " how do you come to know him ? " asked the woman . " are you , perhaps , the maiden he wanted to marry ? " " yes , i am that maiden , " she replied . 