one day the devil met kitta grau : " where have you been , old man ? " asked kitta grau , for she recognized him . " well , " said the evil one , " i have been out on the farm where the newly wedded couple live . this is the third time i have tried to sow dissension between them . but they think so much of each other that it is a sheer impossibility . " " you talk like a real stupid . that is something i could bring about the very first time i went there , " said kitta grau . " if you can do that , you shall have a splendid pair of shoes , " was the evil one 's reply . " mind you keep your word ! " said kitta , and turned toward the farm . there the woman was home alone , for her husband had gone to the forest . kitta said to the young wife : " you really have a splendid husband . " " and that is the truth , " the woman replied , " for he grants my every wish before it is spoken . " " but take my word for it , " said kitta , " there is still a bit of deceit in him . he has a pair of long hairs under his chin . if you could get at them with a razor , and cut them off while he is asleep , then he would be altogether without malice . " " well , " said the woman , " if that will help , i will be sure to keep an eye open after dinner and attend to it , for then he always takes a little noon - day nap . " then kitta grau went out into the forest to the husband and bade him good - day . " you really have a very good wife , " said kitta . " she could not be better , " replied the husband . " well you might be mistaken for all that , " said kitta . " when you come home , be on your guard . when you go to take your noon - day nap , she has in mind to cut your throat . so be sure not to go to sleep . " the husband did not think much of the matter . still , he thanked kitta grau for her trouble . then he went home and ate his dinner , laid down and pretended to fall asleep at once . then his wife went to his shaving - kit , took out his razor , went softly up to him and took hold of his chin with her hand . up flew the man . " do you want to murder me ? " he cried , and gave his wife such a thump that she measured her full length on the floor . and from that day forward there was no peace in the house . now kitta grau was to receive her reward from the evil one . but he was so afraid of her that he did not venture to give her the shoes until he stood on one side of a stream , while she stood on the other , and then he passed them over to her on a long pole . " you are ever so much worse than i am , " he told kitta grau . 