' now , child , ' said she , ' tell me what impression you have received . ' ' you sent me , madam , ' answered sylvia , ' to the court of iris , on whom you had bestowed the gift of beauty . she never tells anyone , however , that it was your gift , though she often speaks of your kindness in general . it seemed to me that her loveliness , which fairly dazzled me at first , had absolutely deprived her of the use of any of her other gifts or graces . in allowing herself to be seen , she appeared to think that she was doing all that could possibly be required of her . but , unfortunately , while i was still with her she became seriously ill . though she presently recovered , her beauty is entirely gone , so that she hates the very sight of herself , and is in despair . she entreated me to tell you what had happened , and to beg you , in pity , to give her beauty back to her . and , indeed , she does need it terribly , for all the things in her that were tolerable , and even agreeable , when she was so pretty , seem quite different now she is ugly . it is so long since she thought of using her mind or her natural cleverness , that i really do n't think she has any left now . she is quite aware of all this herself , so you may imagine how unhappy she is , and how earnestly she begs for your aid . ' ' you have told me what i wanted to know , ' cried the fairy , ' but alas ! i can not help her . my gifts can be given but once . ' some time passed in all the usual delights of the flower - fairy 's palace , and then she sent for sylvia again . she told her she was to stay for a little while with the princess daphne . accordingly the butterflies whisked her off , and set her down in quite a strange kingdom . she had only been there a very little time before a wandering butterfly brought a message from her to the fairy , begging that she might be sent for as soon as possible . before very long she was allowed to return . ' ah ! madam , ' cried she , ' what a place you sent me to that time ! ' ' why , what was the matter ? ' asked the fairy . ' daphne was one of the princesses who asked for the gift of eloquence , if i remember rightly . ' ' and very ill the gift of eloquence becomes a woman , ' replied sylvia , with an air of conviction . ' it is true that she speaks well , and her expressions are well chosen . but then she never leaves off talking , and though at first one may be amused , one ends by being wearied to death . above all things she loves any assembly for settling the affairs of her kingdom . on those occasions she can talk and talk without fear of interruption . even then , the moment it is over she is ready to begin again about anything or nothing , as the case may be . oh ! how glad i was to come away i can not tell you . ' 