' now , child , ' said she , ' tell me what impression you have received . ' ' you sent me , madam , ' answered sylvia , ' to the court of iris , on whom you had bestowed the gift of beauty . she never tells anyone , however , that it was your gift , though she often speaks of your kindness in general . it seemed to me that her loveliness , which fairly dazzled me at first , had absolutely deprived her of the use of any of her other gifts or graces . in allowing herself to be seen , she appeared to think that she was doing all that could possibly be required of her . but , unfortunately , while i was still with her she became seriously ill . though she presently recovered , her beauty is entirely gone , so that she hates the very sight of herself , and is in despair . she entreated me to tell you what had happened , and to beg you , in pity , to give her beauty back to her . and , indeed , she does need it terribly , for all the things in her that were tolerable , and even agreeable , when she was so pretty , seem quite different now she is ugly . it is so long since she thought of using her mind or her natural cleverness , that i really do n't think she has any left now . she is quite aware of all this herself , so you may imagine how unhappy she is , and how earnestly she begs for your aid . ' ' you have told me what i wanted to know , ' cried the fairy , ' but alas ! i can not help her . my gifts can be given but once . ' some time passed in all the usual delights of the flower - fairy 's palace , and then she sent for sylvia again . she told her she was to stay for a little while with the princess daphne . accordingly the butterflies whisked her off , and set her down in quite a strange kingdom . she had only been there a very little time before a wandering butterfly brought a message from her to the fairy , begging that she might be sent for as soon as possible . before very long she was allowed to return . ' ah ! madam , ' cried she , ' what a place you sent me to that time ! ' ' why , what was the matter ? ' asked the fairy . ' daphne was one of the princesses who asked for the gift of eloquence , if i remember rightly . ' ' and very ill the gift of eloquence becomes a woman , ' replied sylvia , with an air of conviction . ' it is true that she speaks well , and her expressions are well chosen . but then she never leaves off talking , and though at first one may be amused , one ends by being wearied to death . above all things she loves any assembly for settling the affairs of her kingdom . on those occasions she can talk and talk without fear of interruption . even then , the moment it is over she is ready to begin again about anything or nothing , as the case may be . oh ! how glad i was to come away i can not tell you . ' the fairy smiled at sylvia 's unfeigned disgust at her late experience . after allowing her a little time to recover she sent her to the court of the princess cynthia , where she left her for three months . at the end of that time sylvia came back to her with all the joy and contentment that one feels at being once more beside a dear friend . the fairy , as usual , was anxious to hear what she thought of cynthia , who had always been amiable , and to whom she had given the gift of pleasing . ' i thought at first , ' said sylvia , ' that she must be the happiest princess in the world . she had a thousand lovers who vied with one another in their efforts to please and gratify her . indeed , i had nearly decided that i would ask a similar gift . ' ' have you altered your mind , then ? ' interrupted the fairy . ' yes , indeed , madam , ' replied sylvia . ' and i will tell you why . the longer i stayed the more i saw that cynthia was not really happy . in her desire to please everyone she ceased to be sincere , and degenerated into a mere coquette . even her lovers felt that the charms and fascinations which were exercised upon all who approached her without distinction were valueless , so that in the end they ceased to care for them , and went away disdainfully . ' ' i am pleased with you , child , ' said the fairy ; ' enjoy yourself here for awhile and presently you shall go to phyllida . ' sylvia was glad to have leisure to think , for she could not make up her mind at all what she should ask for herself , and the time was drawing very near . however , before very long the fairy sent her to phyllida , and waited for her report with unabated interest . ' i reached her court safely , ' said sylvia , ' and she received me with much kindness , and immediately began to exercise upon me that brilliant wit which you had bestowed upon her . i confess that i was fascinated by it , and for a week thought that nothing could be more desirable . the time passed like magic , so great was the charm of her society . but i ended by ceasing to covet that gift more than any of the others i have seen , for , like the gift of pleasing , it can not really give satisfaction . by degrees i wearied of what had so delighted me at first , especially as i perceived more and more plainly that it is impossible to be constantly smart and amusing without being frequently ill - natured , and too apt to turn all things , even the most serious , into mere occasions for a brilliant jest . ' the fairy in her heart agreed with sylvia 's conclusions , and felt pleased with herself for having brought her up so well . 