at length he grew weary of home . " i must away and try my fortune in the world , " said he , and his parents did not like to object ; for there was not much to wish for at home . so he led his dear horse from the stable , swung himself into the saddle , and rode hurriedly into the wood . he rode on and on , and had already covered a good bit of ground , when he saw two lions engaged in a struggle with a tiger , and they were well - nigh overcome . " make haste to take your bow , " said the horse , " shoot the tiger and deliver the two lions ! " " yes , that 's what i will do , " said the youth , fitted an arrow to the bow - string , and in a moment the tiger lay prone on the ground . the two lions drew nearer , nuzzled their preserver in a friendly and grateful manner , and then hastened back to their cave . faithful now rode along for a long time among the great trees until he suddenly spied two terrified white doves fleeing from a hawk who was on the point of catching them . " make haste to take your bow , " said the horse , " shoot the hawk and save the two doves ! " " yes , that 's what i 'll do , " said the youth . he fitted an arrow to the bow - string , and in a moment the hawk lay prone on the ground . but the two doves flew nearer , fluttered about their deliverer in a tame and grateful manner , and then hurried back to their nest . the youth pressed on through the wood and by now was far , far from home . but his horse did not tire easily , and ran on with him until they came to a great lake . there he saw a gull rise up from the water , holding a pike in its claws . " make haste to take your bow , " said the horse , " shoot the gull and save the pike ! " " yes , that 's what i 'll do , " answered the youth , fitted an arrow to his bow - string , and in a moment the gull was threshing the ground with its wings , mortally wounded . but the pike who had been saved swam nearer , gave his deliverer a friendly , grateful glance , and then dove down to join his fellows beneath the waves . 