he straightway ordered faithful to be brought before him , and threatened him with death if he did not at once hurry into the hill and bring back the wife of whom he had been robbed . if he were successful great honor should be his reward . in vain faithful denied what unfaithful had said of him , the king stuck to his demand , and the youth withdrew , convinced that he had not long to live . then he went to the stable to bid farewell to his beautiful horse , and stood beside him and wept . " what grieves you so ? " asked the horse . then the youth told him of all that had happened , and said that this was probably the last time he would be able to visit him . " if it be no more than that , " said the horse , " there is a way to help you . up in the garret of the castle there is an old fiddle , take it with you and play it when you come to the place where the queen is kept . and fashion for yourself armor of steel wire , and set knives into it everywhere , and then , when you see the troll open his jaws , descend into his maw , and thus slay him . but you must have no fear , and must trust me to show you the way . " these words filled the youth with fresh courage , he went to the king and received permission to leave , secretly fashioned his steel armor , took the old fiddle from the garret of the castle , led his dear horse out of the stable , and without delay set forth for the troll 's hill . inconsolable , he went to his beautiful horse , wept and wanted to say farewell to him forever . " what troubles you ? " asked the horse . and the youth replied : " unfaithful has again been telling lies about me , and if i do not bring the troll 's golden hall to the queen , my life will be forfeited . " " is it nothing more serious than that ? " said the horse . " see that you obtain a great ship , take your fiddle with you and play the golden hall out of the hill , then hitch the troll 's horses before it , and you will be able to bring the glistening hall here without trouble . " then faithful felt somewhat better , did as the horse had told him , and was successful in reaching the great hill . and as he stood there playing the fiddle , the golden hall heard him , and was drawn to the sounding music , and it moved slowly , slowly , until it stood outside the hill . it was built of virgin gold , like a house by itself , and under it were many wheels . then the youth took the troll 's horses , put them to the golden hall , and thus brought it aboard his ship . soon he had crossed the lake , and brought it along safely so that it reached the castle without damage , to the great joy of the queen . yet despite the fact , she was as weary of everything as she had been before , never spoke to her husband , the king , and no one ever saw her laugh . now faithful knew quite well that he could not hope to catch the troll 's wild colts , and he once more turned to the stable in order to bid farewell to the huldra 's gift . " why do you weep over such a trifle ? " said the horse . " hurry to the wood , play your fiddle , and all will be well ! " faithful did as he was told , and after a while the two lions whom he had rescued came leaping toward him , listened to his playing and asked him whether he was in distress . " yes , indeed , " said faithful , and told them what he had to do . they at once ran back into the wood , one to one side and the other to the other , and returned quickly , driving the two colts before them . then faithful played his fiddle and the colts followed him , so that he soon reached the king 's castle in safety , and could deliver the steeds to the queen . this time the youth was not so depressed , for he thought to himself : " my wise horse will be able to help me . " and so he was , for he advised him to go along playing his fiddle , and to wait for what might happen . after the youth had played for a while , the pike he had saved thrust his head out of the water , recognized him , and asked whether he could be of any service to him . " yes , indeed ! " said the youth , and told him what it was he wanted . the pike at once dived , quickly rose to the surface of the water with the golden keys in his mouth , and gave them to his deliverer . the latter hastened back with them , and now the queen could open the great chests in the golden hall to her heart 's content . 