a little later he met an old man , and him he asked whether he knew where the place might be that was " farther south than south , and farther north than north , and in the great hill of gold . " the man said yes , he knew well enough , but it would not do the young fellow much good to get there , for the troll who lived there killed every one . " o , i have to make the attempt , whether it lead to life or death , " said the young fellow , for he was fonder than fond of the middle one of the three maidens . so he learned the way from the old man , and finally reached the hill . there he had to pass through three rooms , before he came into the hall to the maidens . and there were locks on every door , and at each stood a watchman . " where do you want to go ? " asked the first watchman . " in to the maidens , " said the young fellow . " in you may go , but you 'll not get out again , " said the watchman , " for now the troll will be along before long . " but the young fellow said that , at any rate , he would make the attempt , and went on . so he came to the second watchman . " where do you want to go ? " asked the latter . " in to the maidens , " said the young fellow . " in you may go , but you 'll not get out again , " said the watchman , " for the troll will be here any minute . " " and yet i will make the attempt , " said the young fellow , and the watchman let him pass . so he came to the third watchman . " where do you want to go ? " the latter asked him . " in to the maidens , " said the young fellow . " in you may go , but you 'll never get out again , for the troll will be here in three shakes of a lamb 's tail , " said the watchman . " and yet i will make the attempt , " said the young fellow , and this watchman also let him pass . then he reached the inner chamber where the maidens sat . they were so beautiful and distinguished , and the room was so full of gold and silver , that the young fellow never could have imagined anything like it . then he showed the ring , and asked whether the maidens recognized it . indeed they did recognize him and the ring . " but you poor unfortunate , this is the end of us and of you ! " said they . " the troll with three heads will be along before long , and you had better hide behind the door ! " " o , i 'm so frightened , i 'm so frightened ! " wailed the maiden whom the young fellow had chosen . " just you stop crying , " said the young fellow . " i think fortune will favor us ! " 