the man then asked if the hog which was in the boiler was yet cooked . ' it is cooked , ' replied the giant , ' and allow me to divide it . ' ' how will you divide it ? ' said the man of the house . ' i will give one hindquarter to fionn and his hounds ; the other hindquarter to fionn 's four men ; the forepart to myself ; the chine and rump to the old man who sits at the opposite side of the fire and to the hag in yonder corner ; and the giblets to you and the young woman who is opposite to you . ' ' i pledge my word , ' said the man of the house , ' you have divided it very fairly . ' ' i pledge my word , ' exclaimed the ram , ' that the division is very unfair so far as i am concerned , for i have been altogether forgotten . ' and so saying , he immediately snatched the quarter that lay before my four men , and carried it away into a corner , where he began to devour it . the four men instantly attacked the ram all at once with their swords , but though they laid on violently , it did not affect him in the least , and the blows fell away as from a stone or rock , so that they were forced to resume their seats . ' upon my veracity , he is doomed for evil who owns as companions such four fellows as you are , who tamely suffer one single sheep to carry away your food and devour it before your faces , ' exclaimed the man with the twelve eyes ; and at the same time going up to the ram , he caught him by the feet and gave him a violent pitch out of the door , so that he fell on his back on the ground ; and from that time we saw him no more . soon after this the hag started up , and having thrown her ashy - grey coverlet over my four men , metamorphosed them into four withered , drooping - headed old men . when i saw that i was seized with great fear and alarm ; and when the man at the door - post perceived this , he desired me to come over to him , place my head on his bosom , and sleep . i did so ; and the hag got up and took her coverlet off my four men ; and when i awoke i found them restored to their own shape , and that was a great happiness to me . ' o fionn , ' asked the man of the door - post , ' do you feel surprised at the appearance and arrangements of this house ? ' i assured him that i never saw anything which surprised me more . ' well , then , i will explain the meaning of all these things to you , ' said the man . ' the giant carrying the grunting hog between the prongs of the iron fork , whom you first saw , is he who is yonder , and his name is sloth . she who is close to me is the young woman who had been forcing him along , that is energy ; and energy compels sloth forward with her ; for energy moves , in the twinkling of the eye , a greater distance than the foot can travel in a year . the old man of the bright eyes yonder signifies the world ; and he is more powerful than anyone , which has been proved by his rendering the ram powerless . that ram which you saw signifies the crimes of the man . that hag there beyond is withering old age , and her clothing has withered your four men . the two wells from which you drank the two draughts mean falsehood and truth ; for while telling a lie one finds it sweet , but it becomes bitter at the last . cuanna from innistuil is my own name . i do not reside here , but having conceived a wonderful love for you , o fionn , on account of your superiority in wisdom and general celebrity , i therefore put those things into the way before you in order that i might see you . and this story shall be called , to the end of the world , the hospitality of cuanna 's house to fionn . let you and your men come together , and do ye five sleep until morning . ' accordingly we did so , and when we awoke in the morning we found ourselves on the summit of cairn feargaill , with our hounds and arms by us . so there is the meaning of the byword , ' the hospitality of fionn in the house of cuanna , ' o conan , said fionn . 