" win victory and blessings , o fenian king , " said conan ; " it is with clear memory and sweet words you relate these things . tell me now the meaning of the byword , ' the hospitality of fionn in the house of cuanna . ' " " i will tell you the truth concerning that , o conan , " said fionn . " oisin , caoilte , mac lughaidh , diarmuid o'duibhne , and myself happened one day , above all other days , to be on the summit of cairn feargall . we were accompanied by our five hounds , namely , bran , sceoluing , sear dubh , luath luachar , and anuaill . we had not long been there when we perceived a rough , tall , huge giant approaching us . he carried an iron fork upon his back , and a grunting hog was placed between the prongs of the fork ; a young girl of mature age followed and forced the giant on his way before her . ' let someone go forward and accost those people , ' said i. diarmuid o'duibhne followed , but did not overtake them . the other three and i started up , and followed diarmuid and the giant . we overtook diarmuid , but did not come up with the giant or the girl ; for a dark , gloomy , druidical mist showered down between us and them , so that we could not discern what road they took . when the mist cleared away we looked around us , and discovered a light - roofed , comfortable - looking house at the edge of the ford near at hand . we proceeded to the house , before which spread a lawn upon which were two fountains . at the brink of one fountain lay a rude iron vessel , and a vessel of bronze at the brink of the other . those we met in the house were an aged , hoary - headed man standing by the door jamb to the right hand , and a beautiful maid sitting before him ; a rough , rude , huge giant before the fire busily cooking a hog ; and an old man at the other side of the fire , having an iron - grey head of hair and twelve eyes in his head , while the twelve sons ( germs ) of discord beamed in each eye . " ' o fionn , ' asked the man of the door - post , ' do you feel surprised at the appearance and arrangements of this house ? ' i assured him that i never saw anything which surprised me more . ' well , then , i will explain the meaning of all these things to you , ' said the man . ' the giant carrying the grunting hog between the prongs of the iron fork , whom you first saw , is he who is yonder , and his name is sloth . she who is close to me is the young woman who had been forcing him along , that is energy ; and energy compels sloth forward with her ; for energy moves , in the twinkling of the eye , a greater distance than the foot can travel in a year . the old man of the bright eyes yonder signifies the world ; and he is more powerful than anyone , which has been proved by his rendering the ram powerless . that ram which you saw signifies the crimes of the man . that hag there beyond is withering old age , and her clothing has withered your four men . the two wells from which you drank the two draughts mean falsehood and truth ; for while telling a lie one finds it sweet , but it becomes bitter at the last . cuanna from innistuil is my own name . i do not reside here , but having conceived a wonderful love for you , o fionn , on account of your superiority in wisdom and general celebrity , i therefore put those things into the way before you in order that i might see you . and this story shall be called , to the end of the world , the hospitality of cuanna 's house to fionn . let you and your men come together , and do ye five sleep until morning . ' accordingly we did so , and when we awoke in the morning we found ourselves on the summit of cairn feargaill , with our hounds and arms by us . so there is the meaning of the byword , ' the hospitality of fionn in the house of cuanna , ' o conan , said fionn . 