" win victory and blessings , o fionn , " said conan , " and tell me who was the man that , having only one leg , one arm , and one eye , escaped from you in consequence of his swiftness . who outstripped the fenians of eire , and why is this proverb used , ' as roc came to the house of fionn ' ? " " i will tell you that , " said fionn . " one day the chief of the fenians and i went to teamhair luachra . we took nothing in the chase that same day but one fawn . when it had been cooked it was fetched to me for the purpose of dividing it . i gave a portion of it to each of the fenian chiefs , and there remained none for my own share but a haunch bone . gobha gaoithe , son of ronan , presented himself , and requested me to give him the haunch . i accordingly gave it to him . he then declared that i gave him that portion on account of his swiftness of foot . he went out on the plain , but he had only gone a short distance when caoilte , son of ronan , his own brother , overtook him , and brought the haunch back again to me , and we had no further dispute about the matter . we had not been long so when we saw a huge , obnoxious , massy - boned , black , detestable giant , having only one eye , one arm , and one leg , hop forward towards us . he saluted us . i returned the salutation , and asked him whence he came . " " win victory and blessings , o fenian king , " said conan ; " it is with clear memory and sweet words you relate these things . tell me now the meaning of the byword , ' the hospitality of fionn in the house of cuanna . ' " " i will tell you the truth concerning that , o conan , " said fionn . " oisin , caoilte , mac lughaidh , diarmuid o'duibhne , and myself happened one day , above all other days , to be on the summit of cairn feargall . we were accompanied by our five hounds , namely , bran , sceoluing , sear dubh , luath luachar , and anuaill . we had not long been there when we perceived a rough , tall , huge giant approaching us . he carried an iron fork upon his back , and a grunting hog was placed between the prongs of the fork ; a young girl of mature age followed and forced the giant on his way before her . ' let someone go forward and accost those people , ' said i. diarmuid o'duibhne followed , but did not overtake them . the other three and i started up , and followed diarmuid and the giant . we overtook diarmuid , but did not come up with the giant or the girl ; for a dark , gloomy , druidical mist showered down between us and them , so that we could not discern what road they took . when the mist cleared away we looked around us , and discovered a light - roofed , comfortable - looking house at the edge of the ford near at hand . we proceeded to the house , before which spread a lawn upon which were two fountains . at the brink of one fountain lay a rude iron vessel , and a vessel of bronze at the brink of the other . those we met in the house were an aged , hoary - headed man standing by the door jamb to the right hand , and a beautiful maid sitting before him ; a rough , rude , huge giant before the fire busily cooking a hog ; and an old man at the other side of the fire , having an iron - grey head of hair and twelve eyes in his head , while the twelve sons ( germs ) of discord beamed in each eye . " 