" win victory and blessings , o fionn , " said conan , " and tell me who was the man that , having only one leg , one arm , and one eye , escaped from you in consequence of his swiftness . who outstripped the fenians of eire , and why is this proverb used , ' as roc came to the house of fionn ' ? " " i will tell you that , " said fionn . " one day the chief of the fenians and i went to teamhair luachra . we took nothing in the chase that same day but one fawn . when it had been cooked it was fetched to me for the purpose of dividing it . i gave a portion of it to each of the fenian chiefs , and there remained none for my own share but a haunch bone . gobha gaoithe , son of ronan , presented himself , and requested me to give him the haunch . i accordingly gave it to him . he then declared that i gave him that portion on account of his swiftness of foot . he went out on the plain , but he had only gone a short distance when caoilte , son of ronan , his own brother , overtook him , and brought the haunch back again to me , and we had no further dispute about the matter . we had not been long so when we saw a huge , obnoxious , massy - boned , black , detestable giant , having only one eye , one arm , and one leg , hop forward towards us . he saluted us . i returned the salutation , and asked him whence he came . " ' i am come by the powers of the agility of my arm and leg , ' responded he , ' having heard there is not one man in the world more liberal in bestowing gifts than you , o fionn . therefore , i am come to solicit wealth and valuable gifts from you . ' i replied that were all the wealth of the world mine i would give him neither little nor much . he then declared ' they were all liars who asserted that i never gave a refusal to any person . ' i replied that if he were a man i would not give him a refusal . ' well , then , ' said the giant , ' let me have that haunch you have in your hand , and i will say good - bye to the fenians , provided that you allow me the length of the haunch as a distance , and that i am not seized upon until i make my first hop . ' upon hearing this i gave the haunch into the giant 's hand , and he hopped over the lofty stockades of the town . he then made use of the utmost swiftness of his one leg to outstrip all the rest of the fenians . when the fenian chiefs saw that , they started in pursuit of the giant , while i and the band of minstrels of the town went to the top of the dun to watch their proceedings . when i saw that the giant had outstripped them a considerable distance , i put on my running habiliments , and , taking no weapon but mac an loin in my hand , i started after the others . i overtook the hindmost division on sliabh an righ , the middle ( next ) division at limerick , and the chiefs of the fenians at ath bo , which is called ath - luain ( athlone ) , and those first in the pursuit at rinn - an - ruaigh , to the right - hand side of cruachan of connacht , where he ( the giant ) was distant less than a javelin 's cast from me . 