the prince at once replied : " take the hands - they are lying under the bed - and the bottle hanging in the window , and pour some of the contents of the bottle on their arms and hands , join them together , bind them up , take away the bandages in three days ' time and the hands will have been healed ! " the maiden made no reply and fell asleep . in the morning the prince rose as usual , stepped over to the bed several times and looked at her from its foot ; but she did not dare look up , and closed her eyes . he sighed , took his apple ; but left the bottle , and went . when the maiden rose she did as he had told her , and in three days ' time removed the bandages , and the girls ' hands were well and whole . now the foreign princess arrived and the wedding was to be celebrated as soon as possible . yet she was not fitted out with any more magnificence than the bride of the sea - prince , and both were equally honored by the king and court . this annoyed the two other girls , and they again threatened to have the youngest done away with if she did not let them taste the apple which the prince always brought with him . again the maiden sought the advice of the wise woman , in whom she had confidence . and that night , when the prince had lain down , she said : " the maidens twain will see me slain , or else your apple they would gain ! " then the prince said : " take the apple lying in the window , and when you go out , lay it on the ground and follow wherever it may roll . and when it stops , pick as many apples as you wish , and return the same way you came . " the maiden made no reply , and fell asleep . on the following morning it seemed harder than ever for the prince to resolve to go away . he appeared excited and restless , sighed often , bent over the maiden several times , went into the living room , then turned around and looked at her once more . finally , when the sun rose , he hurried out and locked the door after him . when the maiden rose , she could not help weeping , for she had really begun to love the prince . 