suddenly the portal closed with a great crash . then the maiden was much frightened , and regretted having done what had been forbidden her ; yet now she could not get out , and was compelled to follow the apple once more . it rolled far into the beautiful garden and stopped at a little fire - place , where stood two kettles of water , one small , the other large . there was a great fire burning under the large kettle ; but only a weak fire beneath the smaller one . now when the apple stopped there the maiden did not know what to do . then it occurred to her to scrape away the fire beneath the large kettle and thrust it under the little one ; and soon the kettle over the small fire began to boil and the kettle over the large one simmered down . but she could not stay there . and since she had already disobeyed the order given her , she expected to die , nothing less , and was quite resigned to do so , because she had lost all hope of winning the prince . so she gave the apple another push , and it rolled into a meadow in the middle of the garden , and there lay two little children , asleep , with the hot sun beating straight down upon them . the maiden felt sorry for the children , and she took her apron and laid it over them to protect them from [ the sun , and only kept the apples she could put in her little basket . but she could not stay here either , so again she touched the apple , and it rolled on and before she knew it the girl found herself by the sea - shore . there , under a shady tree lay the prince asleep ; while beside him sat the sea - queen . both rose when the maiden drew near , and the prince looked at her with alarm and tenderness in his flashing eyes . then he leaped into the sea , and the white foam closed over him . but the sea - queen was enraged and seized the girl , who thought that her last moment had struck , and begged for a merciful death . the sea - queen looked at her , and asked her who had given her permission to pass beyond the apple - tree . 