the maiden confessed her disobedience , and said that she had done so without meaning any harm , whereupon the sea - queen said she would see how she had conducted herself and punish her accordingly . thereupon the sea - queen gave the apple a push , and it rolled back through the portal to the apple - tree . the sea - queen saw that the apple - tree was uninjured , again pushed the apple and it rolled on to the little fire - place . but when the sea - queen saw the small kettle boiling furiously , while the large one was growing cold , she became very angry , seized the girl 's arm savagely and rising to her full height , asked : " what have you dared do here ? how dared you take the fire from under my kettle and put it under your own ? " the maiden did not know that she had done anything wrong , and said that she did not know why . then the sea - queen replied : " the large kettle signified the love between the prince and myself ; the small one the love between the prince and you . since you have taken the fire from under my kettle and laid it under your own , the prince is now violently in love with you , while his love for me is well - nigh extinguished . " " look , " she cried , angrily , " now my kettle has stopped boiling altogether , and yours is boiling over ! but i will see what other harm you have done and punish you accordingly . " and the sea - queen again pushed the apple with her foot , and it rolled to the sleeping children , who had been covered with the apron . then the sea - queen said : " did you do that ? " " yes , " replied the maiden , weeping , " but i meant no harm . i covered the little ones with my apron so that the sun might not burn down on them so fiercely , and i left with them the apples i could not put in my basket . " the sea - queen said : " this deed and your truthfulness are your salvation . i see that you have a kind heart . these children belong to me and to the prince ; but since he now loves you more than he does me , i will resign him to you . go back to the castle and there say what i tell you : that your wedding with my prince is to be celebrated at the same time as that of his younger brother . and all your jewels , your ornaments , your wedding - dress and your bridal chair , are to be exactly like those of the other princess . from the moment on that the priest blesses the prince and yourself i have no further power over him . 