the poor girl , had not been sleeping ; but had only closed her eyes when the prince bent over her . now she was glad to think he was fast asleep , and forgot the wise woman 's warning not to turn around . her curiosity got the better of her , and she wanted to find out if this were a real human being . she turned around softly , lest she wake him ; but just as she sat up quietly in bed , in order to take a good look at her neighbor , he swiftly seized her right hand , hewed it off , and flung it under the bed . then he at once lay down and fell asleep again . as soon as it was day , he rose , dressed without casting even a glance at the bed , took the bottle and the apple from the window , went hastily out and locked the door after him . one can imagine how the poor girl suffered in the meantime , and when her friends and relatives came to fetch her they found her weeping and robbed of her hand . she was brought to the castle and the wise woman sent for , and overwhelmed with bitter reproaches . but she said that if the maiden had not turned around , and had overcome her curiosity , she would not have lost her hand . they were to treat her as though she were really and truly a princess ; but that it would be as much as her life were worth to allow her to return to the neighborhood of the little house . the two girls were all the more discouraged by this mishap , and thought themselves condemned to death , though the wise woman consoled them as well as she knew how . the second promised her faithfully not to turn around ; yet it happened with her as it had with the first . the prince came in at twelve o'clock dripping , shook himself so that the water flew about , said " uh hu ! " went to the window , laid down the beautiful apple , hung up the bottle , came into the bed - room , bent over the bed , strode up and down a few times , said " uh hu ! " hastily undressed , and at once fell asleep . her curiosity gained the upper hand , and when she made sure that he was sleeping soundly , she carefully turned around in order to look at him . but he seized her right hand , hewed it off and cast it under the bed , and then laid down again and slept on . at dawn he rose , dressed without casting a glance at the bed , took the apple and the bottle , went out and locked the door after him . when her friends and relatives came to fetch the girl in the morning , they found her weeping and without a right hand . she was taken to the castle , where she found herself just as little welcome as her predecessor , and the wise woman insisted that the girl must have turned around , though at first she denied it absolutely . 