" well done ! " thought his brother , who saw his success ; but just as little peepi was getting to land with his prize , up sailed a large white owl from a tree where he , too , had been watching , and laid claim to it . he was on the point of wresting it from peepi , when gray eagle , calling out to the intruder to desist , rushed up , and , fixing his talons in both sides of the owl , without further introduction or ceremony , flew away with him . the little pigeon - hawk followed closely , with the duck under his wing , rejoiced and happy to think that he had something to carry home at last . he was naturally much vexed with the owl , and had no sooner delivered over the duck to his sister , the housekeeper , than he flew in the owl 's face , and , venting an abundance of reproachful terms , would , in his passion , have torn the very eyes out of the white owl 's head . " softly , peepi , " said the gray eagle , stepping in between them . " do n't be in such a huff , my little brother , nor exhibit so revengeful a temper . do you not know that we are to forgive our enemies ? white owl , you may go ; but let this be a lesson to you , not to play the tyrant over those who may chance to be weaker than yourself . " so , after adding to this much more good advice , and telling him what kind of herbs would cure his wounds , gray eagle dismissed white owl , and the four brothers and sisters sat down to supper . the next day , betimes , in the morning , before the household had fairly rubbed the cobwebs out of the corners of their eyes , there came a knock at the front door -- which was a dry branch that lay down before the hollow of the tree in which they lodged -- and being called to come in , who should make their appearance but the two nest - mates , who had just returned from the south , where they had been wintering . there was great rejoicing over their return , and now that they were all happily re - united , each one soon chose a mate and began to keep house in the woods for himself . 