" i am waited for in egypt , " said the swallow . " my friends are flying up and down the nile , and talking to the large lotus - flowers . soon they will go to sleep in the tomb of the great king . the king is there himself in his painted coffin . he is wrapped in yellow linen , and embalmed with spices . round his neck is a chain of pale green jade , and his hands are like withered leaves . " " swallow , swallow , little swallow , " said the prince , " will you not stay with me for one night , and be my messenger ? the boy is so thirsty , and the mother so sad . " " i do n't think i like boys , " answered the swallow . " last summer , when i was staying on the river , there were two rude boys , the miller 's sons , who were always throwing stones at me . they never hit me , of course ; we swallows fly far too well for that , and besides , i come of a family famous for its agility ; but still , it was a mark of disrespect . " but the happy prince looked so sad that the little swallow was sorry . " it is very cold here , " he said ; " but i will stay with you for one night , and be your messenger . " " i am waited for in egypt , " answered the swallow . " to - morrow my friends will fly up to the second cataract . the river - horse couches there among the bulrushes , and on a great granite throne sits the god memnon . all night long he watches the stars , and when the morning star shines he utters one cry of joy , and then he is silent . at noon the yellow lions come down to the water 's edge to drink . they have eyes like green beryls , and their roar is louder than the roar of the cataract . " " swallow , swallow , little swallow , " said the prince , " far away across the city i see a young man in a garret . he is leaning over a desk covered with papers , and in a tumbler by his side there is a bunch of withered violets . his hair is brown and crisp , and his lips are red as a pomegranate , and he has large and dreamy eyes . he is trying to finish a play for the director of the theatre , but he is too cold to write any more . there is no fire in the grate , and hunger has made him faint . " " i am beginning to be appreciated , " he cried ; " this is from some great admirer . now i can finish my play , " and he looked quite happy . the next day the swallow flew down to the harbour . he sat on the mast of a large vessel and watched the sailors hauling big chests out of the hold with ropes . " heave a - hoy ! " they shouted as each chest came up . " i am going to egypt " ! cried the swallow , but nobody minded , and when the moon rose he flew back to the happy prince . " i am come to bid you good - bye , " he cried . " swallow , swallow , little swallow , " said the prince , " will you not stay with me one night longer ? " " it is winter , " answered the swallow , " and the chill snow will soon be here . in egypt the sun is warm on the green palm - trees , and the crocodiles lie in the mud and look lazily about them . my companions are building a nest in the temple of baalbec , and the pink and white doves are watching them , and cooing to each other . dear prince , i must leave you , but i will never forget you , and next spring i will bring you back two beautiful jewels in place of those you have given away . the ruby shall be redder than a red rose , and the sapphire shall be as blue as the great sea . " 