when i entered the city the onlookers were crowded together like walls . servants ran to and fro bearing orders . we passed through more than a dozen gates before we reached the princess . there i was requested to dismount and change my clothes in order to enter the presence of the princess , for she wished to receive me as her guest . but i thought this too great an honor and greeted her below , on the steps . she , however , invited me to seat myself near her in the hall . she sat upright in all her incomparable beauty , surrounded by female attendants adorned with the richest jewels . these plucked lute - strings and played flutes . a throng of servitors stood about in golden girdles with purple tassels , ready to carry out her commands . countless crowds were assembled before the palace . five or six visitors sat in a circle about the princess , and a general led me to my place . the princess said to me : ' i have begged you to come here in order to entrust the command of my army to you . if you will break the power of my foe i will reward you richly . ' i promised to obey her . then wine was brought in , and the banquet was served to the sound of music . while we were at table a messenger entered : ' the robber tschauna has invaded our land with ten thousand footmen and horsemen , and is approaching our city by various roads . his way is marked by columns of fire and smoke ! ' the guests all grew pale with terror when they heard the news . and the princess said : ' this is the foe because of whom i have sought your aid . save me in my hour of need ! ' then she gave me two chargers , a suit of golden armor , and the insignia of a commander - in - chief , and bowed to me . i thanked her and went , called together the captains , had the army mustered and rode out before the city . at several decisive points i placed troops in ambush . the enemy was already approaching in great force , careless and unconcerned , intoxicated by his former victories . i sent out my most untrustworthy soldiers in advance , who allowed themselves to be beaten in order to lure him on . light - armed men then went out against him , and retreated in skirmish order . and thus he fell into my ambush . drums and kettledrums sounded together , the ring closed around them on all sides and the robber army suffered a grievous defeat . the dead lay about like hemp - stalks , but little tschauna succeeded in breaking through the circle . 