from all sides bright - colored clouds came floating in , and the courtyard was filled with a purple ether . dschou bau had wine and food brought and entertained them all in the most splendid way . but the goddess sat staring straight before her with wrinkled brows , and seemed to feel very sad . then she rose and said with a blush : " i have been living in this neighborhood for many years . a wrong which has been done me , permits me to pass the bounds of what is fitting , and encourages me to ask a favor of you . yet i do not know whether you wish to save me ! " " may i hear what it is all about , " answered dschou bau . " if i can help you , i will be glad to place myself at your disposal . " dschou bau answered : " you come from a noble family . have you no kinsfolk who will hasten to help you in your need , that you are compelled to turn to a mortal man ? " " it is true that my kinsfolk are far - famed and numerous . if i were to send out letters and they came to my aid , they would rub out that scaly scoundrel tschauna as one might rub garlic . but my deceased husband offended the high heavens and he has not yet been pardoned . and my parents ' will , too , is opposed to mine , so that i dare not call upon my kinsfolk for help . you will understand my need . " then dschou bau promised to help her , and the princess thanked him and departed . when he awoke , he sighed long thinking over his strange experience . and the following day he sent off fifteen hundred soldiers to stand guard by the lake of the maidens . on the seventh day of the sixth month dschou bau rose early . darkness still lay before the windows , yet it seemed to him as though he could glimpse a man before the curtain . he asked who it might be . the man said : " i am the princess 's adviser . yesterday you were kind enough to send soldiers to aid us in our distress . but they were all living men , and such can not fight against invisible spirits . you will have to send us soldiers of yours who have died , if you wish to aid us . " 