his way is marked by columns of fire and smoke ! ' the guests all grew pale with terror when they heard the news . and the princess said : ' this is the foe because of whom i have sought your aid . save me in my hour of need ! ' then she gave me two chargers , a suit of golden armor , and the insignia of a commander - in - chief , and bowed to me . i thanked her and went , called together the captains , had the army mustered and rode out before the city . at several decisive points i placed troops in ambush . the enemy was already approaching in great force , careless and unconcerned , intoxicated by his former victories . i sent out my most untrustworthy soldiers in advance , who allowed themselves to be beaten in order to lure him on . light - armed men then went out against him , and retreated in skirmish order . and thus he fell into my ambush . drums and kettledrums sounded together , the ring closed around them on all sides and the robber army suffered a grievous defeat . the dead lay about like hemp - stalks , but little tschauna succeeded in breaking through the circle . i sent out the light horsemen after him , and they seized him before the tent of the enemy 's commanding general . hastily i sent word to the princess , and she reviewed the prisoners before the palace . all the people , high and low , streamed together , to acclaim her . little tschauna was about to be executed in the market place when a messenger came spurring up with a command from the princess 's father to pardon him . the princess did not dare to disobey . so he was dismissed to his home after he had sworn to give up all thought of realizing his traitorous plans . i was loaded with benefits as a reward for my victory . i was invested with an estate with three thousand peasants , and was given a palace , horses and wagons , all sorts of jewels , men - servants and women - servants , gardens and forests , banners and suits of mail . and my subordinate officers , too , were duly rewarded . on the following day a banquet was held , and the princess herself filled a goblet , sent it to me by one of her attendants , and said : ' widowed early in life , i opposed the wishes of my stern father and fled to this spot . here the infamous tschauna harassed me and well - nigh put me to shame . had not your master 's great kindness and your own courage come to my assistance , hard would have been my lot ! ' then she began to thank me and her tears of emotion flowed like a stream . i bowed and begged her to grant me leave of absence , so that i might look after my family . i was given a month 's leave and the following day she dismissed me with a splendid retinue . before the city a pavilion had been erected in which i drank the stirrup - cup . then i rode away and when i arrived before our own gate a thunder - peal crashed and i awoke . " 