so he took pen and ink and wrote something , and when he had done jack my hedgehog pointed out the way and the king got safely home . now when the king 's daughter saw her father returning in the distance she was so delighted that she ran to meet him and threw herself into his arms . then the king remembered jack my hedgehog , and he told his daughter how he had been obliged to give a written promise to bestow whatever he first met when he got home on an extraordinary creature which had shown him the way . the creature , said he , rode on a cock as though it had been a horse , and it made lovely music , but as it certainly could not read he had just written that he would _ not _ give it anything at all . at this the princess was quite pleased , and said how cleverly her father had managed , for that of course nothing would induce her to have gone off with jack my hedgehog . meantime jack minded his asses and pigs , sat aloft in his tree , played his bagpipes , and was always merry and cheery . after a time it so happened that another king , having lost his way , passed by with his servants and escort , wondering how he could find his way home , for the forest was very vast . he too heard the music , and told one of his men to find out whence it came . the man came under the tree , and looking up to the top there he saw jack my hedgehog astride on the cock . the servant asked jack what he was doing up there . ' i 'm minding my pigs and donkeys ; but what do you want ? ' was the reply . then the servant told him they had lost their way , and wanted some one to show it them . down came jack my hedgehog with his cock , and told the old king he would show him the right way if he would solemnly promise to give him the first thing he met in front of his royal castle . the king said ' yes , ' and gave jack a written promise to that effect . then jack rode on in front pointing out the way , and the king reached his own country in safety . now he had an only daughter who was extremely beautiful , and who , delighted at her father 's return , ran to meet him , threw her arms round his neck and kissed him heartily . then she asked where he had been wandering so long , and he told her how he had lost his way and might never have reached home at all but for a strange creature , half - man , half - hedgehog , which rode a cock and sat up in a tree making lovely music , and which had shown him the right way . he also told her how he had been obliged to pledge his word to give the creature the first thing which met him outside his castle gate , and he felt very sad at the thought that she had been the first thing to meet him . but the princess comforted him , and said she should be quite willing to go with jack my hedgehog whenever he came to fetch her , because of the great love she bore to her dear old father . jack my hedgehog continued to herd his pigs , and they increased in number till there were so many that the forest seemed full of them . so he made up his mind to live there no longer , and sent a message to his father telling him to have all the stables and outhouses in the village cleared , as he was going to bring such an enormous herd that all who would might kill what they chose . his father was much vexed at this news , for he thought jack had died long ago . jack my hedgehog mounted his cock , and driving his pigs before him into the village , he let every one kill as many as they chose , and such a hacking and hewing of pork went on as you might have heard for miles off . then said jack , ' daddy , let the blacksmith shoe my cock once more ; then i 'll ride off , and i promise you i 'll never come back again as long as i live . ' so the father had the cock shod , and rejoiced at the idea of getting rid of his son . 