in like manner was jamie informed as they passed over each town on the route , and at length he heard the silvery voices cry , " dublin ! dublin ! " it was no mean dwelling that was to be honoured by the fairy visit , but one of the finest houses in stephen 's green . the troop dismounted near a window , and jamie saw a beautiful face on a pillow in a splendid bed . he saw the young lady lifted and carried away , while the stick which was dropped in her place on the bed took her exact form . the lady was placed before one rider and carried a short way , then given another , and the names of the towns were cried as before . they were approaching home . jamie heard " rathmullan , " " milford , " " tamney , " and then he knew they were near his own house . " you 've all had your turn at carrying the young lady , " said he . " why would n't i get her for a wee piece ? " " ay , jamie , " replied they pleasantly , " you may take your turn at carrying her , to be sure . " holding his prize very tightly he dropped down near his mother 's door . " jamie freel ! jamie freel ! is that the way you treat us ? " cried they , and they , too , dropped down near the door . jamie held fast , though he knew not what he was holding , for the little folk turned the lady into all sorts of strange shapes . at one moment she was a black dog , barking and trying to bite . at another a glowing bar of iron , which yet had no heat ; then again a sack of wool . but still jamie held her , and the baffled elves were turning away when a tiny woman , the smallest of the party , exclaimed , " jamie freel has her awa frae us , but he sall nae hae gude of her , for i 'll make her deaf and dumb , " and she threw something over the young girl . while they rode off , disappointed , jamie freel lifted the latch and went in . " jamie man ! " cried his mother , " you 've been away all night . what have they done on you ? " " naething bad , mother . i have the very best of gude luck . here 's a beautiful young lady i hae brought you for company . " " bless us and save us ! " exclaimed his mother . for some minutes she was so astonished she could not think of anything else to say . jamie told the story of the night 's adventure , ending by saying , " surely you wouldna have allowed me to let her gang with them to be lost for ever ? " " but a lady , jamie ! how can a lady eat we'er ( our ) poor diet and live in we'er poor way ? i ax you that , you foolitch fellow ! " " well , mother , sure it 's better for her to be over here nor yonder , " and he pointed in the direction of the castle . meanwhile the deaf and dumb girl shivered in her light clothing , stepping close to the humble turf fire . " poor crathur , she 's quare and handsome ! nae wonder they set their hearts on her , " said the old woman , gazing at their guest with pity and admiration . " we maun dress her first . what in the name of fortune have i fit for the likes of her to wear ? " she went to her press in " the room " and took out her sunday gown of brown drugget . she then opened a drawer and drew forth a pair of white stockings , a long snowy garment of fine linen , and a cap , her " dead dress , " as she called it . these articles of attire had long been ready for a certain triste ceremony , in which she would some day fill the chief part , and only saw the light occasionally when they were hung out to air . she was willing to give even these to the fair trembling visitor , who was turning in dumb sorrow and wonder from her to jamie , and from jamie back to her . the poor girl suffered herself to be dressed , and then sat down on a " creepie " in the chimney corner and buried her face in her hands . " what 'll we do to keep up a lady like you ? " cried the old woman . " i 'll work for you both , mother , " replied the son . " an ' how could a lady live on we'er poor diet ? " she repeated . " i 'll work for her , " was all jamie 's answer . he kept his word . the young lady was very sad for a long time , and tears stole down her cheeks many an evening , while the old woman span by the fire and jamie made salmon nets , an accomplishment acquired by him in hopes of adding to the comfort of their guest . but she was always gentle , and tried to smile when she perceived them looking at her . by degrees she adapted herself to their ways and mode of life . it was not very long before she began to feed the pig , mash potatoes and meal for the fowls , and knit blue worsted socks . so a year passed and halloween came round again . " mother , " said jamie , taking down his cap , " i 'm off to the old castle to seek my fortune . " 