" jamie , " said the lady , " be pleased to get me paper and pen and ink that i may write to my father and tell him what has become of me . " she wrote , but weeks passed and she received no answer . again and again she wrote , and still no answer . at length she said , " you must come with me to dublin , jamie , to find my father . " " i have no money to hire a car for you , " he answered . " and how can you travel to dublin on your foot ? " but she implored him so much that he consented to set out with her and walk all the way from fannet to dublin . it was not as easy as the fairy journey . but at last they rang the bell at the door of the house in stephen 's green . " tell my father that his daughter is here , " said she to the servant who opened the door . " the gentleman that lives here has no daughter , my girl . he had one , but she died better nor a year ago . " " do you not know me , sullivan ? " " no , poor girl , i do not . " " let me see the gentleman . i only ask to see him . " " well , that 's not much to ax . we 'll see what can be done . " in a few moments the lady 's father came to the door . " how dare you call me your father ? " cried the old gentleman angrily . " you are an impostor . i have no daughter . " " look in my face , father , and surely you 'll remember me . " " my daughter is dead and buried . she died a long , long time ago . " the old gentleman 's voice changed from anger to sorrow . " you can go , " he concluded . " stop , dear father , till you look at this ring on my finger . look at your name and mine engraved on it . " " it certainly is my daughter 's ring , but i do not know how you came by it . i fear in no honest way . " " call my mother -- she will be sure to know me , " said the poor girl , who by this time was weeping bitterly . " my poor wife is beginning to forget her sorrow . she seldom speaks of her daughter now . why should i renew her grief by reminding her of her loss ? " but the young lady persevered till at last the mother was sent for . " mother , " she began , when the old lady came to the door , " do n't you know your daughter ? " " i have no daughter . my daughter died , and was buried a long , long time ago . " " only look in my face and surely you 'll know me . " the old lady shook her head . " you have all forgotten me . but look at this mole on my neck . surely , mother , you know me now ? " " yes , yes , " said her mother , " my gracie had a mole on her neck like that . but then i saw her in the coffin , and saw the lid shut down upon her . " 