in like manner was jamie informed as they passed over each town on the route , and at length he heard the silvery voices cry , " dublin ! dublin ! " it was no mean dwelling that was to be honoured by the fairy visit , but one of the finest houses in stephen 's green . the troop dismounted near a window , and jamie saw a beautiful face on a pillow in a splendid bed . he saw the young lady lifted and carried away , while the stick which was dropped in her place on the bed took her exact form . the lady was placed before one rider and carried a short way , then given another , and the names of the towns were cried as before . they were approaching home . jamie heard " rathmullan , " " milford , " " tamney , " and then he knew they were near his own house . " you 've all had your turn at carrying the young lady , " said he . " why would n't i get her for a wee piece ? " " ay , jamie , " replied they pleasantly , " you may take your turn at carrying her , to be sure . " holding his prize very tightly he dropped down near his mother 's door . " jamie freel ! jamie freel ! is that the way you treat us ? " cried they , and they , too , dropped down near the door . jamie held fast , though he knew not what he was holding , for the little folk turned the lady into all sorts of strange shapes . at one moment she was a black dog , barking and trying to bite . at another a glowing bar of iron , which yet had no heat ; then again a sack of wool . but still jamie held her , and the baffled elves were turning away when a tiny woman , the smallest of the party , exclaimed , " jamie freel has her awa frae us , but he sall nae hae gude of her , for i 'll make her deaf and dumb , " and she threw something over the young girl . " are you mad , jamie ? " cried his mother in terror . " sure they 'll kill you this time for what you done on them last year . " jamie made light of her fears and went his way . as he reached the crab - tree grove he saw bright lights in the castle windows as before , and heard loud talking . creeping under the window he heard the wee folk say , " that was a poor trick jamie freel played us this night last year , when he stole the young lady from us . " " ay , " said the tiny woman , " an ' i punished him for it , for there she sits a dumb image by the hearth , but he does not know that three drops out of this glass that i hold in my hand wad gie her her hearing and speech back again . " jamie 's heart beat fast as he entered the hall . again he was greeted by a chorus of welcomes from the company--"here comes jamie freel ! welcome , welcome , jamie ! " as soon as the tumult subsided the little woman said , " you be to drink our health , jamie , out of this glass in my hand . " jamie snatched the glass from her and darted to the door . he never knew how he reached his cabin , but he arrived there breathless and sank on a stove by the fire . " you 're kilt , surely , this time , my poor boy , " said his mother . " no , indeed , better luck than ever this time ! " and he gave the lady three drops of the liquid that still remained at the bottom of the glass , notwithstanding his mad race over the potato field . the lady began to speak , and her first words were words of thanks to jamie . the three inmates of the cabin had so much to say to one another that , long after cock - crow , when the fairy music had quite ceased , they were talking round the fire . 