he set out , and , as he crossed the potato field , came in sight of the castle , whose windows were ablaze with light that seemed to turn the russet leaves , still clinging to the crab - tree branches , into gold . halting in the grove at one side of the ruin , he listened to the elfin revelry . the laughter and singing made him all the more determined to proceed . numbers of little people , the largest about the size of a child of five years old , were dancing to the music of flutes and fiddles , while others drank and feasted . " welcome , jamie freel ! welcome , welcome , jamie ! " cried the company , perceiving their visitor . the word " welcome " was caught up and repeated by every voice in the castle . time flew , and jamie was enjoying himself very much , when his hosts said , " we 're going to ride to dublin to - night to steal a young lady . will you come , too , jamie freel ? " " ay , that i will , " cried the rash youth , thirsting for adventure . a troop of horses stood at the door . jamie mounted , and his steed rose with him into the air . he was presently flying over his mother 's cottage , surrounded by the elfin troop . on and on they went , over bold mountains , over little hills , over the deep lough swilley , over towns and cottages , where people were burning nuts and eating apples and keeping merry halloween . it seemed to jamie that they flew all round ireland before they got to dublin . " this is derry , " said the fairies , flying over the cathedral spire . what was said by one voice was repeated by all the rest , till fifty little voices were crying out , " derry ! derry ! derry ! " in like manner was jamie informed as they passed over each town on the route , and at length he heard the silvery voices cry , " dublin ! dublin ! " it was no mean dwelling that was to be honoured by the fairy visit , but one of the finest houses in stephen 's green . the troop dismounted near a window , and jamie saw a beautiful face on a pillow in a splendid bed . he saw the young lady lifted and carried away , while the stick which was dropped in her place on the bed took her exact form . the lady was placed before one rider and carried a short way , then given another , and the names of the towns were cried as before . they were approaching home . jamie heard " rathmullan , " " milford , " " tamney , " and then he knew they were near his own house . " you 've all had your turn at carrying the young lady , " said he . " why would n't i get her for a wee piece ? " " ay , jamie , " replied they pleasantly , " you may take your turn at carrying her , to be sure . " holding his prize very tightly he dropped down near his mother 's door . " jamie freel ! jamie freel ! is that the way you treat us ? " cried they , and they , too , dropped down near the door . jamie held fast , though he knew not what he was holding , for the little folk turned the lady into all sorts of strange shapes . at one moment she was a black dog , barking and trying to bite . at another a glowing bar of iron , which yet had no heat ; then again a sack of wool . but still jamie held her , and the baffled elves were turning away when a tiny woman , the smallest of the party , exclaimed , " jamie freel has her awa frae us , but he sall nae hae gude of her , for i 'll make her deaf and dumb , " and she threw something over the young girl . while they rode off , disappointed , jamie freel lifted the latch and went in . " jamie man ! " cried his mother , " you 've been away all night . what have they done on you ? " " naething bad , mother . i have the very best of gude luck . here 's a beautiful young lady i hae brought you for company . " " bless us and save us ! " exclaimed his mother . for some minutes she was so astonished she could not think of anything else to say . jamie told the story of the night 's adventure , ending by saying , " surely you wouldna have allowed me to let her gang with them to be lost for ever ? " " but a lady , jamie ! how can a lady eat we'er ( our ) poor diet and live in we'er poor way ? i ax you that , you foolitch fellow ! " " well , mother , sure it 's better for her to be over here nor yonder , " and he pointed in the direction of the castle . meanwhile the deaf and dumb girl shivered in her light clothing , stepping close to the humble turf fire . " poor crathur , she 's quare and handsome ! nae wonder they set their hearts on her , " said the old woman , gazing at their guest with pity and admiration . " we maun dress her first . what in the name of fortune have i fit for the likes of her to wear ? " she went to her press in " the room " and took out her sunday gown of brown drugget . she then opened a drawer and drew forth a pair of white stockings , a long snowy garment of fine linen , and a cap , her " dead dress , " as she called it . 