' with that , my dear , he took up the goose by the two wings -- criss o ' my cross an you , ' says he , markin ' her to grace with the blessed sign at the same minute . and throwin ' her up in the air , ' whew ! ' says he , just givin ' her a blast to help her . with that , my jewel , she took to her heels , flyin ' like one o ' the eagles themselves , and cuttin ' as many capers as a swallow before a shower of rain . away she went down there , right in front of you , along the side o ' the cliff , and flew over saint kavin 's bed ( that is , where saint kavin 's bed is now , but was not then , by reason as it was n't made , but was contrived after by saint kavin himself , that the women might leave him alone ) . and on with her under lugduff , and round the end of the lake there , far beyond where you see the waterfall . and on with her then right over the lead mines o ' luganure ( that is , where the lead mines is now , but was not then , by reason they were n't discovered , but was all gold in saint kavin 's time ) . well , over the end o ' luganure she flew , stout and studdy , and round the other end of the little lake , by the churches ( that is , of course , where the churches is now , but was not then , by reason they were not built , but afterwards by saint kavin ) , and over the big hill here over your head , where you see the big cliff--(and that cliff in the mountain was made by finn ma cool , where he cut it across with a big sword that he got made a purpose by a blacksmith out o ' rathdrum , a cousin of his own , for to fight a giant that dared him an ' the curragh o ' kildare . he tried the sword first an the mountain , and cut it down into a gap , as is plain to this day . faith , sure enough , it 's the same sauce he served the giant , soon and sudden , and chopped him in two like a potato , for the glory of his soul and old ireland)--well , down she flew over the cliff , and flutterin ' over the wood there at poulanass . ' well -- as i said -- afther flutterin ' over the wood a little bit , to plaze herself , the goose flew down , and bit at the foot o ' the king , as fresh as a daisy , after flyin ' round his dominions , just as if she had n't flew three perch . ' ' well , my dear , it was a beautiful sight to see the king standin ' with his mouth open , lookin ' at his poor old goose flyin ' as light as a lark , and better nor ever she was . when she let at his foot he patted her an the head , and ma vourneen , ' says he , ' but you are the darling o ' the world . ' ' and what do you say to me , ' says saint kavin , ' for makin ' her the like ? ' ' by gor , ' says the king , " i say nothin' about the art o ' men , barrin ' the bees . " ' and do you say no more nor that ? ' says saint kavin . ' and that i 'm beholden to you , ' says the king . ' but will you give me all the ground the goose flew over ? ' says saint kavin . ' i will , ' says king o'toole , ' and you 're welcome to it , ' says he , ' though it 's the last acre i have to give . ' ' but you 'll keep your word true ? ' says the saint . ' as true as the sun , ' says the king . 