all night the old man never closed an eye . when the first ray of light entered the room , he noticed that the little blue flower began to tremble , and at last it rose out of the pot and flew about the room , put everything in order , swept away the dust , and lit the fire . in great haste the old man sprang from his bed , and covered the flower with the cloth the old witch had given him , and in a moment the beautiful princess hyacinthia stood before him . ' what have you done ? ' she cried . ' why have you called me back to life ? for i have no desire to live since my bridegroom , the beautiful prince milan , has deserted me . ' ' prince milan is just going to be married , ' replied the old man . ' everything is being got ready for the feast , and all the invited guests are flocking to the palace from all sides . ' the beautiful hyacinthia cried bitterly when she heard this ; then she dried her tears , and went into the town dressed as a peasant woman . she went straight to the king 's kitchen , where the white - aproned cooks were running about in great confusion . the princess went up to the head cook , and said , ' dear cook , please listen to my request , and let me make a wedding - cake for prince milan . ' the busy cook was just going to refuse her demand and order her out of the kitchen , but the words died on his lips when he turned and beheld the beautiful hyacinthia , and he answered politely , ' you have just come in the nick of time , fair maiden . bake your cake , and i myself will lay it before prince milan . ' the cake was soon made . the invited guests were already thronging round the table , when the head cook entered the room , bearing a beautiful wedding cake on a silver dish , and laid it before prince milan . the guests were all lost in admiration , for the cake was quite a work of art . prince milan at once proceeded to cut it open , when to his surprise two white doves sprang out of it , and one of them said to the other : ' my dear mate , do not fly away and leave me , and forget me as prince milan forgot his beloved hyacinthia . ' milan sighed deeply when he heard what the little dove said . then he jumped up suddenly from the table and ran to the door , where he found the beautiful hyacinthia waiting for him . outside stood his faithful charger , pawing the ground . without pausing for a moment , milan and hyacinthia mounted him and galloped as fast as they could into the country of king kojata . the king and queen received them with such joy and gladness as had never been heard of before , and they all lived happily for the rest of their lives . 