the palace of the magician was all hewn out of a single carbuncle , lighting up the whole surrounding region , and prince milan walked into it gaily . the magician sat on a throne , a sparkling crown on his head ; his eyes blazed like a green fire , and instead of hands he had claws . as soon as prince milan entered he flung himself on his knees . the magician stamped loudly with his feet , glared frightfully out of his green eyes , and cursed so loudly that the whole underworld shook . but the prince , mindful of the counsel he had been given , was n't the least afraid , and approached the throne still on his knees . at last the magician laughed aloud and said , ' you rogue , you have been well advised to make me laugh ; i wo n't be your enemy any more . welcome to the underworld ! all the same , for your delay in coming here , we must demand three services from you . for to - day you may go , but to - morrow i shall have something more to say to you . ' then two servants led prince milan to a beautiful apartment , and he lay down fearlessly on the soft bed that had been prepared for him , and was soon fast asleep . early the next morning the magician sent for him , and said , ' let 's see now what you 've learnt . in the first place you must build me a palace to - night , the roof of purest gold , the walls of marble , and the windows of crystal ; all round you must lay out a beautiful garden , with fish - ponds and artistic waterfalls . if you do all this , i will reward you richly ; but if you do n't , you shall lose your head . ' ' oh , you wicked monster ! ' thought prince milan , ' you might as well have put me to death at once . ' sadly he returned to his room , and with bent head sat brooding over his cruel fate till evening . when it grew dark , a little bee flew by , and knocking at the window , it said , ' open , and let me in . ' milan opened the window quickly , and as soon as the bee had entered , it changed into the beautiful hyacinthia . ' good evening , prince milan . why are you so sad ? ' ' how can i help being sad ? your father threatens me with death , and i see myself already without a head . ' ' and what have you made up your mind to do ? ' ' there 's nothing to be done , and after all i suppose one can only die once . ' 