prince milan 's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes , to see if he could be of any help . as soon as the duck perceived him , it cried in a human voice , ' oh , dear prince milan , for the love of heaven give me back my garment , and i will be so grateful to you . ' the prince lay the little garment on the bank beside her , and stepped back into the bushes . in a few seconds a beautiful girl in a white robe stood before him , so fair and sweet and young that no pen could describe her . she gave the prince her hand and spoke . ' many thanks , prince milan , for your courtesy . i am the daughter of a wicked magician , and my name is hyacinthia . my father has thirty young daughters , and is a mighty ruler in the underworld , with many castles and great riches . he has been expecting you for ages , but you need have no fear if you will only follow my advice . as soon as you come into the presence of my father , throw yourself at once on the ground and approach him on your knees . do n't mind if he stamps furiously with his feet and curses and swears . i 'll attend to the rest , and in the meantime we had better be off . ' with these words the beautiful hyacinthia stamped on the ground with her little foot , and the earth opened and they both sank down into the lower world . ' now , do n't be so foolish , my dear prince ; but keep up your spirits , for there is no need to despair . go to bed , and when you wake up to - morrow morning the palace will be finished . then you must go all round it , giving a tap here and there on the walls to look as if you had just finished it . ' and so it all turned out just as she had said . as soon as it was daylight prince milan stepped out of his room , and found a palace which was quite a work of art down to the very smallest detail . the magician himself was not a little astonished at its beauty , and could hardly believe his eyes . ' well , you certainly are a splendid workman , ' he said to the prince . ' i see you are very clever with your hands , now i must see if you are equally accomplished with your head . i have thirty daughters in my house , all beautiful princesses . to - morrow i will place the whole thirty in a row . you must walk past them three times , and the third time you must show me which is my youngest daughter hyacinthia . if you do n't guess rightly , you shall lose your head . ' ' this time you 've made a mistake , ' thought prince milan , and going to his room he sat down at the window . ' just fancy my not recognising the beautiful hyacinthia ! why , that is the easiest thing in the world . ' ' not so easy as you think , ' cried the little bee , who was flying past . ' if i were n't to help you , you 'd never guess . we are thirty sisters so exactly alike that our own father can hardly distinguish us apart . ' ' then what am i to do ? ' asked prince milan . ' listen , ' answered hyacinthia . ' you will recognise me by a tiny fly i shall have on my left cheek , but be careful for you might easily make a mistake . ' 