' plague on you ! ' said king kojata . ' i can quench my thirst without you , ' and bending over the well he lapped up the water so greedily that he plunged his face , beard and all , right into the crystal mirror . but when he had satisfied his thirst , and wished to raise himself up , he could n't lift his head , because someone held his beard fast in the water . ' who 's there ? let me go ! ' cried king kojata , but there was no answer ; only an awful face looked up from the bottom of the well with two great green eyes , glowing like emeralds , and a wide mouth reaching from ear to ear showing two rows of gleaming white teeth , and the king 's beard was held , not by mortal hands , but by two claws . at last a hoarse voice sounded from the depths . ' your trouble is all in vain , king kojata ; i will only let you go on condition that you give me something you know nothing about , and which you will find on your return home . ' the king did n't pause to ponder long , ' for what , ' thought he , ' could be in my palace without my knowing about it -- the thing is absurd ; ' so he answered quickly : ' yes , i promise that you shall have it . ' the voice replied , ' very well ; but it will go ill with you if you fail to keep your promise . ' then the claws relaxed their hold , and the face disappeared in the depths . the king drew his chin out of the water , and shook himself like a dog ; then he mounted his horse and rode thoughtfully home with his retinue . one day the prince went out hunting , and going in pursuit of a wild boar he soon lost the other huntsmen , and found himself quite alone in the middle of a dark wood . the trees grew so thick and near together that it was almost impossible to see through them , only straight in front of him lay a little patch of meadowland . overgrown with thistles and rank weeds , in the centre of which a leafy lime tree reared itself . suddenly a rustling sound was heard in the hollow of the tree , and an extraordinary old man with green eyes and chin crept out of it . ' a fine day , prince milan , ' he said ; ' you 've kept me waiting a good number of years ; it was high time for you to come and pay me a visit . ' ' who are you , in the name of wonder ? ' demanded the astonished prince . ' you 'll find out soon enough , but in the meantime do as i bid you . greet your father king kojata from me , and do n't forget to remind him of his debt ; the time has long passed since it was due , but now he will have to pay it . farewell for the present ; we shall meet again . ' with these words the old man disappeared into the tree , and the prince returned home rather startled , and told his father all that he had seen and heard . the king grew as white as a sheet when he heard the prince 's story , and said , ' woe is me , my son ! the time has come when we must part , ' and with a heavy heart he told the prince what had happened at the time of his birth . 