well , it was all mighty good as long as the king had his health . but , you see , in coorse o ' time , the king grew old , by reason he was stiff in his limbs , and when he got stricken in years , his heart failed him . he was lost entirely for want o ' diversions , because he could n't go a huntin ' no longer . by dad , the poor king was obliged at last for to get a goose to distract him . you see , the goose used for to swim across the lake , and go down divin ' for trout ( and not finer trout in all ireland than the same trout ) and catch fish on a friday for the king . if flew every other day round about the lake disctracting the poor king that you 'd think he 'd break his sides laughin ' at the frolicksome tricks of his goose . so , in course o ' time , the goose was the greatest pet in the country , and the biggest rogue , and distracted the king to no end . the poor king was as happy as the day was long . so that 's the way it was . all went on mighty well until , by dad , the goose got stricken in years , as well as the king , and grew stiff in the limbs , like her master , and could n't distract him no longer . then it was that the poor king was lost completely , and did n't know what in the wide world to do . he was gone out of all distractions because the goose was no more in the flower of her blume . well , the king was nigh broken - hearted and melancholy entirely , and was walkin ' one mornin ' by the edge of the lake , lamentin ' his cruel fate , an ' thinkin ' o ' drownin ' himself , that could get no diversion in life , when all of a sudden , turnin ' round the corner beyond , who should he meet but a mighty decent young man comin ' up to him . ' god save you , ' says the king ( for the king was a civil - spoken gentleman , by all accounts ) , ' god save you , ' says he to the young man . ' god save you kindly , ' says the young man to him back again . ' god save you , king o'toole . ' ' true for you , ' says the king , ' i am king o'toole , ' says he . ' prince and plennypennytinchery o ' these parts , ' says he . ' but how came you to know that ? ' says he . ' oh , never mind , ' says saint kavin ( for ' twas he that was in it ) . ' and now , may i make bold to ask , how is your goose , king o'toole ? ' says he . ' blur - an - agers , how came you to know about my goose ? ' says the king . ' oh , no mather . i was given to understand it , ' says saint kavin . ' oh , that 's a folly to talk , ' says the king , ' because myself and my goose is private friends , ' says he , ' and no one could tell you , ' says he , ' barrin ' the fairies . ' ' oh , then , it was n't the fairies , ' says saint kavin . ' for i 'd have you know , ' says he , ' that i do n't keep the likes o ' such company . ' ' you might do worse , then , my gay fellow , ' says the king . ' for it 's they could show you a crock o ' money as easy as kiss hand . and that 's not to be sneezed at , ' says the king , ' by a poor man , ' says he . ' maybe i 've a better way of making money myself , ' says the saint . ' by gor , ' says the king , ' barrin ' you 're a coiner , ' says he , ' that 's impossible ! ' ' i 'd scorn to be the like , my lord ! ' says saint kavin , mighty high , ' i 'd scorn to be the like , ' says he . ' then , what are you ? ' says the king , ' that makes money so easy , by your own account . ' ' i 'm an honest man , ' says saint kavin . 