the prince returned to his room in despair ; then the princess hyacinthia came to him once more changed into the likeness of a bee , and asked him , ' why so sad , prince milan ? ' ' how can i help being sad ? your father has set me this time an impossible task . before a candle which he has lit burns to the socket , i am to make a pair of boots . but what does a prince know of shoemaking ? if i ca n't do it , i lose my head . ' ' and what do you mean to do ? ' asked hyacinthia . ' well , what is there to be done ? what he demands i ca n't and wo n't do , so he must just make an end of me . ' ' not so , dearest . i love you dearly , and you shall marry me , and i 'll either save your life or die with you . we must fly now as quickly as we can , for there is no other way of escape . ' with these words she breathed on the window , and her breath froze on the pane . then she led milan out of the room with her , shut the door , and threw the key away . hand in hand , they hurried to the spot where they had descended into the lower world , and at last reached the banks of the lake . prince milan 's charger was still grazing on the grass which grew near the water . the horse no sooner recognized his master , than it neighed loudly with joy , and springing towards him , it stood as if rooted to the ground , while prince milan and hyacinthia jumped on its back . then it sped onwards like an arrow from a bow . in the meantime the magician was waiting impatiently for the prince . enraged by the delay , he sent his servants to fetch him , for the appointed time was past . the servants came to the door , and finding it locked , they knocked ; but the frozen breath on the window replied in prince milan 's voice , ' i am coming directly . ' with this answer they returned to the magician . but when the prince still did not appear , after a time he sent his servants a second time to bring him . the frozen breath always gave the same answer , but the prince never came . at last the magician lost all patience , and commanded the door to be burst open . but when his servants did so , they found the room empty , and the frozen breath laughed aloud . out of his mind with rage , the magician ordered the prince to be pursued . 