there was once upon a time a king called kojata , whose beard was so long that it reached below his knees . three years had passed since his marriage , and he lived very happily with his wife , but heaven granted him no heir , which grieved the king greatly . one day he set forth from his capital , in order to make a journey through his kingdom . he travelled for nearly a year through the different parts of his territory , and then , having seen all there was to be seen , he set forth on his homeward way . as the day was very hot and sultry he commanded his servants to pitch tents in the open field , and there await the cool of the evening . suddenly a frightful thirst seized the king , and as he saw no water near , he mounted his horse , and rode through the neighbourhood looking for a spring . before long he came to a well filled to the brim with water clear as crystal , and on the bosom of which a golden jug was floating . king kojata at once tried to seize the vessel , but though he endeavoured to grasp it with his right hand , and then with his left , the wretched thing always eluded his efforts and refused to let itself be caught . first with one hand , and then with two , did the king try to seize it , but like a fish the goblet always slipped through his fingers and bobbed to the ground only to reappear at some other place , and mock the king . ' plague on you ! ' said king kojata . ' i can quench my thirst without you , ' and bending over the well he lapped up the water so greedily that he plunged his face , beard and all , right into the crystal mirror . but when he had satisfied his thirst , and wished to raise himself up , he could n't lift his head , because someone held his beard fast in the water . ' who 's there ? let me go ! ' cried king kojata , but there was no answer ; only an awful face looked up from the bottom of the well with two great green eyes , glowing like emeralds , and a wide mouth reaching from ear to ear showing two rows of gleaming white teeth , and the king 's beard was held , not by mortal hands , but by two claws . at last a hoarse voice sounded from the depths . ' your trouble is all in vain , king kojata ; i will only let you go on condition that you give me something you know nothing about , and which you will find on your return home . ' the king did n't pause to ponder long , ' for what , ' thought he , ' could be in my palace without my knowing about it -- the thing is absurd ; ' so he answered quickly : ' yes , i promise that you shall have it . ' the voice replied , ' very well ; but it will go ill with you if you fail to keep your promise . ' then the claws relaxed their hold , and the face disappeared in the depths . the king drew his chin out of the water , and shook himself like a dog ; then he mounted his horse and rode thoughtfully home with his retinue . 