' plague on you ! ' said king kojata . ' i can quench my thirst without you , ' and bending over the well he lapped up the water so greedily that he plunged his face , beard and all , right into the crystal mirror . but when he had satisfied his thirst , and wished to raise himself up , he could n't lift his head , because someone held his beard fast in the water . ' who 's there ? let me go ! ' cried king kojata , but there was no answer ; only an awful face looked up from the bottom of the well with two great green eyes , glowing like emeralds , and a wide mouth reaching from ear to ear showing two rows of gleaming white teeth , and the king 's beard was held , not by mortal hands , but by two claws . at last a hoarse voice sounded from the depths . ' your trouble is all in vain , king kojata ; i will only let you go on condition that you give me something you know nothing about , and which you will find on your return home . ' the king did n't pause to ponder long , ' for what , ' thought he , ' could be in my palace without my knowing about it -- the thing is absurd ; ' so he answered quickly : ' yes , i promise that you shall have it . ' the voice replied , ' very well ; but it will go ill with you if you fail to keep your promise . ' then the claws relaxed their hold , and the face disappeared in the depths . the king drew his chin out of the water , and shook himself like a dog ; then he mounted his horse and rode thoughtfully home with his retinue . the palace of the magician was all hewn out of a single carbuncle , lighting up the whole surrounding region , and prince milan walked into it gaily . the magician sat on a throne , a sparkling crown on his head ; his eyes blazed like a green fire , and instead of hands he had claws . as soon as prince milan entered he flung himself on his knees . the magician stamped loudly with his feet , glared frightfully out of his green eyes , and cursed so loudly that the whole underworld shook . but the prince , mindful of the counsel he had been given , was n't the least afraid , and approached the throne still on his knees . at last the magician laughed aloud and said , ' you rogue , you have been well advised to make me laugh ; i wo n't be your enemy any more . welcome to the underworld ! all the same , for your delay in coming here , we must demand three services from you . for to - day you may go , but to - morrow i shall have something more to say to you . ' then two servants led prince milan to a beautiful apartment , and he lay down fearlessly on the soft bed that had been prepared for him , and was soon fast asleep . early the next morning the magician sent for him , and said , ' let 's see now what you 've learnt . in the first place you must build me a palace to - night , the roof of purest gold , the walls of marble , and the windows of crystal ; all round you must lay out a beautiful garden , with fish - ponds and artistic waterfalls . if you do all this , i will reward you richly ; but if you do n't , you shall lose your head . ' 