prince milan 's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes , to see if he could be of any help . as soon as the duck perceived him , it cried in a human voice , ' oh , dear prince milan , for the love of heaven give me back my garment , and i will be so grateful to you . ' the prince lay the little garment on the bank beside her , and stepped back into the bushes . in a few seconds a beautiful girl in a white robe stood before him , so fair and sweet and young that no pen could describe her . she gave the prince her hand and spoke . ' many thanks , prince milan , for your courtesy . i am the daughter of a wicked magician , and my name is hyacinthia . my father has thirty young daughters , and is a mighty ruler in the underworld , with many castles and great riches . he has been expecting you for ages , but you need have no fear if you will only follow my advice . as soon as you come into the presence of my father , throw yourself at once on the ground and approach him on your knees . do n't mind if he stamps furiously with his feet and curses and swears . i 'll attend to the rest , and in the meantime we had better be off . ' with these words the beautiful hyacinthia stamped on the ground with her little foot , and the earth opened and they both sank down into the lower world . the palace of the magician was all hewn out of a single carbuncle , lighting up the whole surrounding region , and prince milan walked into it gaily . the magician sat on a throne , a sparkling crown on his head ; his eyes blazed like a green fire , and instead of hands he had claws . as soon as prince milan entered he flung himself on his knees . the magician stamped loudly with his feet , glared frightfully out of his green eyes , and cursed so loudly that the whole underworld shook . but the prince , mindful of the counsel he had been given , was n't the least afraid , and approached the throne still on his knees . at last the magician laughed aloud and said , ' you rogue , you have been well advised to make me laugh ; i wo n't be your enemy any more . welcome to the underworld ! all the same , for your delay in coming here , we must demand three services from you . for to - day you may go , but to - morrow i shall have something more to say to you . ' then two servants led prince milan to a beautiful apartment , and he lay down fearlessly on the soft bed that had been prepared for him , and was soon fast asleep . early the next morning the magician sent for him , and said , ' let 's see now what you 've learnt . in the first place you must build me a palace to - night , the roof of purest gold , the walls of marble , and the windows of crystal ; all round you must lay out a beautiful garden , with fish - ponds and artistic waterfalls . if you do all this , i will reward you richly ; but if you do n't , you shall lose your head . ' 