after that he went his way walking , and had not gone far when he came to a spring . " i 'll have a drink before i go further , " thought he . with that he stooped down and took a drink of the water . when he had drunk he lay on the ground and fell asleep . now , there was n't a morning that the lady in the green knight 's castle did n't wash in the water of that spring , and she sent a maid for the water each time . whatever part of the day it was when lawn dyarrig fell asleep , he was sleeping in the morning when the girl came . she thought it was dead the man was , and she was so in dread of him that she would not come near the spring for a long time . at last she saw he was asleep , and then she took the water . her mistress was complaining of her for being so long . " do not blame me , " said the maid . " i am sure that if it was yourself that was in my place you 'd not come back so soon . " " how so ? " asked the lady . " the finest hero that ever a woman laid eyes on is sleeping at the spring . " " that 's a thing that can not be till lawn dyarrig comes to the age of a hero . when that time comes he 'll be sleeping at the spring . " " he is in it now , " said the girl . the lady did not stop to get any drop of the water on herself , but ran quickly from the castle . when she came to the spring she roused lawn dyarrig . if she found him lying , she left him standing . she smothered him with kisses , drowned him with tears , dried him with garments of fine silk and with her own hair . herself and himself locked arms and walked into the castle of the green knight . after that they were inviting each other with the best food and entertainment till the middle of the following day . then the lady said : " when the green knight bore me away from my father and mother he brought me straight to this castle , but i put him under bonds not to marry me for seven years and a day , and he can not ; still , i must serve him . when he goes fowling he spends three days away and the next three days at home . this is the day for him to come back , and for me to prepare his dinner . there is no stir that you or i have made here to - day but that brass head beyond there will tell of it . " 