the knight faced him , and they went at each other , and fought till late in the day . the battle was strong against lawn dyarrig , when the lady stood in the door of the castle . " increase on your blows and increase on your courage , " cried she . " there is no woman here but myself to wail over you , or to stretch you before burial . " when the knight heard the voice he rose in the air like a lump of fog . as he was coming down lawn dyarrig struck him with the sod on the right side of his breast , and made a green stone of him . the lady rushed out then , and whatever welcome she had for lawn dyarrig the first time , she had twice as much now . herself and himself went into the castle , and spent that night very comfortably . in the morning they rose early , and collected all the gold , utensils , and treasures . lawn dyarrig found the three teeth of his father in a pocket of the green knight , and took them . he and the lady brought all the riches to where the basket was . " if i send up this beautiful lady , " thought lawn dyarrig , " she may be taken from me by my brothers ; if i remain below with her , she may be taken from me by people here . " he put her in the basket , and she gave him a ring so that they might know each other if they met . he shook the gad , and she rose in the basket . when ur saw the basket , he thought , " what 's above let it be above , and what 's below let it stay where it is . " " are there any linen sheets within ? " " there are , " said the weaver . " it is well to have bags ready for yourself and two sons . " the weaver made bags for the three very quickly . they went to the wedding . lawn dyarrig put what dinner was on the first table into the weaver 's bag , and sent the old man home with it . the food of the second table he put in the eldest son 's bag , filled the second son 's bag from the third table , and sent the two home . the complaint went to ur that an impudent stranger was taking all the food . " it is not right to turn any man away , " said the bridegroom , " but if that stranger does not mind he will be thrown out of the castle . " " let me look at the face of the disturber , " said the bride . " go and bring the fellow who is troubling the guests , " said ur to the servants . lawn dyarrig was brought right away , and stood before the bride , who filled a glass with wine and gave it to him . lawn dyarrig drank half the wine , and dropped in the ring which the lady had given him in terrible valley . when the bride took the glass again the ring went of itself with one leap on to her finger . she knew then who was standing before her . 