" god 's help to you , it 's bad clothing that 's on your body , " said the woman . " and now i will speak to ur . a day and a year since a champion passed this way . he wore a suit as good as was ever above ground . i had a daughter sewing there in the open window . he came outside , put a finger under her girdle , and took her with him . her father followed straightway to save her , but i have never seen daughter nor father from that day to this . that man was the green knight of terrible valley . he is better than all the men that could stand on a field a mile in length and a mile in breadth . if you take my advice you 'll turn back and go home to your father . " it is how she vexed ur with this talk , and he made a vow to himself to go on . when ur did not agree to turn home , the woman said to lawn dyarrig , " go back to my chamber ; you 'll find in it the apparel of a hero . " he went back , and there was not a bit of the apparel he did not go into with a spring . " you may be able to do something now , " said the woman , when lawn dyarrig came to the front . " go back to my chamber and search through all the old swords . you will find one at the bottom . take that . " he found the old sword , and at the first shake that he gave he knocked seven barrels of rust out of it ; after the second shake it was as bright as when made . " you may be able to do well with that , " said the woman . " go out , now , to that stable abroad , and take the slim white steed that is in it . that one will never stop nor halt in any place till he brings you to the eastern world . if you like , take these two men behind you ; if not , let them walk . but i think it is useless for you to have them at all with you . " lawn dyarrig went out to the stable , took the slim white steed , mounted , rode to the front , and catching the two brothers , planted them on the horse behind him . " now , lawn dyarrig , " said the woman , " this horse will never stop till he stands on the little white meadow in the eastern world . when he stops , you 'll come down , and cut the turf under his beautiful right front foot . " the horse started from the door , and at every leap he crossed seven hills and valleys , seven castles with villages , acres , roods , and odd perches . he could overtake the whirlwind before him seven hundred times before the whirlwind behind him could overtake him once . early in the afternoon of the next day he was in the eastern world . when he dismounted , lawn dyarrig cut the sod from under the foot of the slim white steed , in the name of the father , son , and holy ghost , and terrible valley was down under him there . what he did next was to tighten the reins on the neck of the steed and let him go home . " now , " said lawn dyarrig to his brothers , " which would you rather be doing -- making a basket or twisting gads ( withes ) ? " " we would rather be making a basket ; our help is among ourselves , " answered they . 