the knight faced him , and they went at each other , and fought till late in the day . the battle was strong against lawn dyarrig , when the lady stood in the door of the castle . " increase on your blows and increase on your courage , " cried she . " there is no woman here but myself to wail over you , or to stretch you before burial . " when the knight heard the voice he rose in the air like a lump of fog . as he was coming down lawn dyarrig struck him with the sod on the right side of his breast , and made a green stone of him . the lady rushed out then , and whatever welcome she had for lawn dyarrig the first time , she had twice as much now . herself and himself went into the castle , and spent that night very comfortably . in the morning they rose early , and collected all the gold , utensils , and treasures . lawn dyarrig found the three teeth of his father in a pocket of the green knight , and took them . he and the lady brought all the riches to where the basket was . " if i send up this beautiful lady , " thought lawn dyarrig , " she may be taken from me by my brothers ; if i remain below with her , she may be taken from me by people here . " he put her in the basket , and she gave him a ring so that they might know each other if they met . he shook the gad , and she rose in the basket . when ur saw the basket , he thought , " what 's above let it be above , and what 's below let it stay where it is . " " this is the man who conquered the green knight and saved me from terrible valley , " said she to the king of erin ; " this is lawn dyarrig , your son . " lawn dyarrig took out the three teeth and put them in his father 's mouth . they fitted there perfectly , and grew into their old place . the king was satisfied , and as the lady would marry no man but lawn dyarrig , he was the bridegroom . " i must give you a present , " said the bride to the queen . " here is a beautiful scarf which you are to wear as a girdle this evening . " the queen put the scarf round her waist . " tell me now , " said the bride to the queen , " who was ur 's father . " " what father could he have but his own father , the king of erin ? " " tighten , scarf , " said the bride . that moment the queen thought that her head was in the sky and the lower half of her body down deep in the earth . " oh , my grief and my woe ! " cried the queen . " answer my question in truth , and the scarf will stop squeezing you . who was ur 's father ? " " the gardener , " said the queen . 