" if i met that man , i would do my best against him , and he might not stand long before me . " " you are not my son . i would not lose lands or property on you , " said the father . " you must go from me , and leave this to - morrow . " on the following morning the three brothers rose with the dawn ; the order was given lawn dyarrig to leave the castle and make his own way for himself . the other two brothers were going to travel the world to know could they find the man who had injured their father . lawn dyarrig lingered outside till he saw the two , and they going off by themselves . " it is a strange thing , " said he , " for two men of high degree to go travelling without a servant . " " we need no one , " said ur . " company would n't harm us , " said arthur . the two let lawn dyarrig go with them as a serving - boy , and set out to find the man who had struck down their father . they spent all that day walking , and came late to a house where one woman was living . she shook hands with ur and arthur , and greeted them . lawn dyarrig she kissed and welcomed ; called him son of the king of erin . " it is a strange thing to shake hands with the elder , and kiss the younger , " said ur . " this is a story to tell , " said the woman , " the same as if your death were in it . " they made three parts of that night . the first part they spent in conversation , the second in telling tales , the third in eating and drinking , with sound sleep and sweet slumber . as early as the day dawned next morning the old woman was up , and had food for the young men . when the three had eaten , she spoke to ur , and this is what she asked of him : " what was it that drove you from home , and what brought you to this place ? " " a champion met my father , and took three teeth from him and put his head in the dirt . i am looking for that man , to find him alive or dead . " " that was the green knight from terrible valley . he is the man who took the three teeth from your father . i am three hundred years living in this place , and there is not a year of the three hundred in which three hundred heroes , fresh , young , and noble , have not passed on the way to terrible valley , and never have i seen one coming back , and each of them had the look of a man better than you . and now where are you going , arthur ? " " i am on the same journey with my brother . " " where are you going , lawn dyarrig ? " " i am going with these as a servant , " said lawn dyarrig . " god 's help to you , it 's bad clothing that 's on your body , " said the woman . " and now i will speak to ur . a day and a year since a champion passed this way . he wore a suit as good as was ever above ground . i had a daughter sewing there in the open window . he came outside , put a finger under her girdle , and took her with him . her father followed straightway to save her , but i have never seen daughter nor father from that day to this . that man was the green knight of terrible valley . he is better than all the men that could stand on a field a mile in length and a mile in breadth . if you take my advice you 'll turn back and go home to your father . " it is how she vexed ur with this talk , and he made a vow to himself to go on . when ur did not agree to turn home , the woman said to lawn dyarrig , " go back to my chamber ; you 'll find in it the apparel of a hero . " he went back , and there was not a bit of the apparel he did not go into with a spring . " you may be able to do something now , " said the woman , when lawn dyarrig came to the front . " go back to my chamber and search through all the old swords . you will find one at the bottom . take that . " he found the old sword , and at the first shake that he gave he knocked seven barrels of rust out of it ; after the second shake it was as bright as when made . 