there was a king in his own time in erin , and he went hunting one day . the king met a man whose head was out through his cap , whose elbows and knees were out through his clothing , and whose toes were out through his shoes . the man went up to the king , gave him a blow on the face , and drove three teeth from his mouth . the same blow put the king 's head in the dirt . when he rose from the earth , the king went back to his castle , and lay down sick and sorrowful . the king had three sons , and their names were ur , arthur , and lawn dyarrig . the three were at school that day , and came home in the evening . the father sighed when the sons were coming in . " what is wrong with our father ? " asked the eldest . " your father is sick on his bed , " said the mother . the three sons went to their father and asked what was on him . " a strong man that i met to - day gave me a blow in the face , put my head in the dirt , and knocked three teeth from my mouth . what would you do to him if you met him ? " asked the father of the eldest son . " if i met that man , " replied ur , " i would make four parts of him between four horses . " " you are my son , " said the king . " what would you do if you met him ? " asked he then as he turned to the second son . " if i had a grip on that man i would burn him between four fires . " " you , too , are my son . what would you do ? " asked the king of lawn dyarrig . " if i met that man , i would do my best against him , and he might not stand long before me . " " you are not my son . i would not lose lands or property on you , " said the father . " you must go from me , and leave this to - morrow . " on the following morning the three brothers rose with the dawn ; the order was given lawn dyarrig to leave the castle and make his own way for himself . the other two brothers were going to travel the world to know could they find the man who had injured their father . lawn dyarrig lingered outside till he saw the two , and they going off by themselves . " it is a strange thing , " said he , " for two men of high degree to go travelling without a servant . " " we need no one , " said ur . " company would n't harm us , " said arthur . the two let lawn dyarrig go with them as a serving - boy , and set out to find the man who had struck down their father . they spent all that day walking , and came late to a house where one woman was living . she shook hands with ur and arthur , and greeted them . lawn dyarrig she kissed and welcomed ; called him son of the king of erin . " it is a strange thing to shake hands with the elder , and kiss the younger , " said ur . " this is a story to tell , " said the woman , " the same as if your death were in it . " 