the knight faced him , and they went at each other , and fought till late in the day . the battle was strong against lawn dyarrig , when the lady stood in the door of the castle . " increase on your blows and increase on your courage , " cried she . " there is no woman here but myself to wail over you , or to stretch you before burial . " when the knight heard the voice he rose in the air like a lump of fog . as he was coming down lawn dyarrig struck him with the sod on the right side of his breast , and made a green stone of him . the lady rushed out then , and whatever welcome she had for lawn dyarrig the first time , she had twice as much now . herself and himself went into the castle , and spent that night very comfortably . in the morning they rose early , and collected all the gold , utensils , and treasures . lawn dyarrig found the three teeth of his father in a pocket of the green knight , and took them . he and the lady brought all the riches to where the basket was . " if i send up this beautiful lady , " thought lawn dyarrig , " she may be taken from me by my brothers ; if i remain below with her , she may be taken from me by people here . " he put her in the basket , and she gave him a ring so that they might know each other if they met . he shook the gad , and she rose in the basket . when ur saw the basket , he thought , " what 's above let it be above , and what 's below let it stay where it is . " " i 'll have you as wife for ever for myself , " said he to the lady . " i put you under bonds , " says she , " not to lay a hand on me for a day and three years . " " that itself would not be long even if twice the time , " said ur . the two brothers started home with the lady ; on the way ur found the head of an old horse with teeth in it , and took them , saying , " these will be my father 's three teeth . " they travelled on , and reached home at last . ur would not have left a tooth in his father 's mouth , trying to put in the three that he had brought ; but the father stopped him . lawn dyarrig , left in terrible valley , began to walk around for himself . he had been walking but one day when whom should he meet but the lad short - clothes , and he saluted him . " by what way can i leave terrible valley ? " asked lawn dyarrig . 