" since you are not dead now , " said short - clothes , " there is no death allotted to you . i 'll find a way for you to leave terrible valley . go and take that old bridle hanging there beyond and shake it ; whatever beast comes and puts its head into the bridle will carry you . " lawn dyarrig shook the bridle , and a dirty , shaggy little foal came and put its head in the bridle . lawn dyarrig mounted , dropped the reins on the foal 's neck , and let him take his own choice of roads . the foal brought lawn dyarrig out by another way to the upper world , and took him to erin . lawn dyarrig stopped some distance from his father 's castle , and knocked at the house of an old weaver . " who are you ? " asked the old man . " i am a weaver , " said lawn dyarrig . " what can you do ? " " i can spin for twelve and twist for twelve . " " this is a very good man , " said the old weaver to his sons , " let us try him . " the work they had been doing for a year he had done in one hour . when dinner was over the old man began to wash and shave , and his two sons began to do the same . " why is this ? " asked lawn dyarrig . " have n't you heard that ur , son of the king , is to marry to - night the woman that he took from the green knight of terrible valley ? " " i have not , " said lawn dyarrig ; " as all are going to the wedding , i suppose i may go without offence ? " " oh , you may , " said the weaver ; " there will be a hundred thousand welcomes before you . " " are there any linen sheets within ? " " there are , " said the weaver . " it is well to have bags ready for yourself and two sons . " the weaver made bags for the three very quickly . they went to the wedding . lawn dyarrig put what dinner was on the first table into the weaver 's bag , and sent the old man home with it . the food of the second table he put in the eldest son 's bag , filled the second son 's bag from the third table , and sent the two home . the complaint went to ur that an impudent stranger was taking all the food . " it is not right to turn any man away , " said the bridegroom , " but if that stranger does not mind he will be thrown out of the castle . " " let me look at the face of the disturber , " said the bride . " go and bring the fellow who is troubling the guests , " said ur to the servants . lawn dyarrig was brought right away , and stood before the bride , who filled a glass with wine and gave it to him . lawn dyarrig drank half the wine , and dropped in the ring which the lady had given him in terrible valley . when the bride took the glass again the ring went of itself with one leap on to her finger . she knew then who was standing before her . 