" are there any linen sheets within ? " " there are , " said the weaver . " it is well to have bags ready for yourself and two sons . " the weaver made bags for the three very quickly . they went to the wedding . lawn dyarrig put what dinner was on the first table into the weaver 's bag , and sent the old man home with it . the food of the second table he put in the eldest son 's bag , filled the second son 's bag from the third table , and sent the two home . the complaint went to ur that an impudent stranger was taking all the food . " it is not right to turn any man away , " said the bridegroom , " but if that stranger does not mind he will be thrown out of the castle . " " let me look at the face of the disturber , " said the bride . " go and bring the fellow who is troubling the guests , " said ur to the servants . lawn dyarrig was brought right away , and stood before the bride , who filled a glass with wine and gave it to him . lawn dyarrig drank half the wine , and dropped in the ring which the lady had given him in terrible valley . when the bride took the glass again the ring went of itself with one leap on to her finger . she knew then who was standing before her . " this is the man who conquered the green knight and saved me from terrible valley , " said she to the king of erin ; " this is lawn dyarrig , your son . " lawn dyarrig took out the three teeth and put them in his father 's mouth . they fitted there perfectly , and grew into their old place . the king was satisfied , and as the lady would marry no man but lawn dyarrig , he was the bridegroom . " i must give you a present , " said the bride to the queen . " here is a beautiful scarf which you are to wear as a girdle this evening . " the queen put the scarf round her waist . " tell me now , " said the bride to the queen , " who was ur 's father . " " what father could he have but his own father , the king of erin ? " " tighten , scarf , " said the bride . that moment the queen thought that her head was in the sky and the lower half of her body down deep in the earth . " oh , my grief and my woe ! " cried the queen . " answer my question in truth , and the scarf will stop squeezing you . who was ur 's father ? " " the gardener , " said the queen . 