" he has some way of coaxing my men to delay , " said the knight . " do you go now , three hundred of my savage hirelings , and bring him . " the three hundred savage hirelings went , and lawn dyarrig let every man of them enter before he raised a hand , then he caught the bulkiest of them all by the two ankles , and began to wallop the others with him , and he walloped them till he drove the life out of the two hundred and ninety - nine . the bulkiest one was worn to the shin - bones that lawn dyarrig held in his two hands . the green knight , who thought lawn dyarrig was coaxing the men , called out then , " come down , my men , and take dinner . " " i 'll be with you , " said lawn dyarrig , " and have the best food in the house , and i 'll have the best bed in the house . god not be good to you for it , either . " the knight faced him , and they went at each other , and fought till late in the day . the battle was strong against lawn dyarrig , when the lady stood in the door of the castle . " increase on your blows and increase on your courage , " cried she . " there is no woman here but myself to wail over you , or to stretch you before burial . " when the knight heard the voice he rose in the air like a lump of fog . as he was coming down lawn dyarrig struck him with the sod on the right side of his breast , and made a green stone of him . the lady rushed out then , and whatever welcome she had for lawn dyarrig the first time , she had twice as much now . herself and himself went into the castle , and spent that night very comfortably . in the morning they rose early , and collected all the gold , utensils , and treasures . lawn dyarrig found the three teeth of his father in a pocket of the green knight , and took them . he and the lady brought all the riches to where the basket was . " if i send up this beautiful lady , " thought lawn dyarrig , " she may be taken from me by my brothers ; if i remain below with her , she may be taken from me by people here . " he put her in the basket , and she gave him a ring so that they might know each other if they met . he shook the gad , and she rose in the basket . when ur saw the basket , he thought , " what 's above let it be above , and what 's below let it stay where it is . " 