" if i had a grip on you that 's what you would n't ask me a second time , " said short - clothes . " if you have n't touched me , you will before you are much older . " " if you do , you will not treat me as you did all my people and my master . " " i 'll do worse to you than i did to them , " said lawn dyarrig . they caught each other then , one grip under the arm and one on the shoulder . it is not long they were wrestling when lawn dyarrig had short - clothes on the earth , and he gave him the five thin tyings dear and tight . " you are the best hero i have ever met , " said short - clothes ; " give me quarter for my soul -- spare me . when i did not tell you of my own will , i must tell in spite of myself . " " it is as easy for me to loosen you as to tie you , " said lawn dyarrig , and he freed him . " since you are not dead now , " said short - clothes , " there is no death allotted to you . i 'll find a way for you to leave terrible valley . go and take that old bridle hanging there beyond and shake it ; whatever beast comes and puts its head into the bridle will carry you . " lawn dyarrig shook the bridle , and a dirty , shaggy little foal came and put its head in the bridle . lawn dyarrig mounted , dropped the reins on the foal 's neck , and let him take his own choice of roads . the foal brought lawn dyarrig out by another way to the upper world , and took him to erin . lawn dyarrig stopped some distance from his father 's castle , and knocked at the house of an old weaver . " who are you ? " asked the old man . " i am a weaver , " said lawn dyarrig . " what can you do ? " " i can spin for twelve and twist for twelve . " " this is a very good man , " said the old weaver to his sons , " let us try him . " the work they had been doing for a year he had done in one hour . when dinner was over the old man began to wash and shave , and his two sons began to do the same . " why is this ? " asked lawn dyarrig . " have n't you heard that ur , son of the king , is to marry to - night the woman that he took from the green knight of terrible valley ? " " i have not , " said lawn dyarrig ; " as all are going to the wedding , i suppose i may go without offence ? " " oh , you may , " said the weaver ; " there will be a hundred thousand welcomes before you . " 