she at length became so engrossed by the fairy pines that her parents began to suspect that some evil spirit had enticed her to its haunts , and had cast upon her a charm which she had not the power to resist . this belief was confirmed when , one day , her mother , who had secretly followed her , overheard her murmuring to some unknown and invisible companion , appeals like these : " spirit of the dancing leaves ! " whispered leelinau , " hear a throbbing heart in its sadness . spirit of the foaming stream ! visit thou my nightly pillow , shedding over it silver dreams of mountain brook and pebbly rivulet . spirit of the starry night ! lead my foot - prints to the blushing mis - kodeed , or where the burning passion - flower shines with carmine hue . spirit of the greenwood plume ! " she concluded , turning with passionate gaze to the beautiful young pines which stood waving their green beauty over her head , " shed on me , on leelinau the sad , thy leafy fragrance , such as spring unfolds from sweetest flowers , or hearts that to each other show their inmost grief . spirits ! hear , o hear a maiden 's prayer ! " day by day , these strange communings with unseen beings drew away the heart of leelinau more and more from the simple duties of the lodge , and she walked among her people , melancholy and silent , like a spirit who had visited them from another land . the pastimes which engaged the frolic moments of her young companions , passed by her as little trivial pageants in which she had no concern . when the girls of the neighboring lodges assembled to play at the favorite female game of pappus - e - ko - waun , or the block and string , before the lodge - door , leelinau would sit vacantly by , or enter so feebly into the spirit of the play as to show that it was irksome to her . again , in the evening , when the young people formed a ring around the lodge , and the piepeend - jigun , or leather and bone , passed rapidly from one to the other , she either handed it along without attempting to play , or if she took a part , it was with no effort to succeed . the time of the corn - gathering had come , and the young people of the tribe were assembled in the field , busy in plucking the ripened maize . one of the girls , noted for her beauty , had found a red ear , and every one congratulated her that a brave admirer was on his way to her father 's lodge . she blushed , and hiding the trophy in her bosom , she thanked the good spirit that it was a red ear , and not a crooked , that she had found . 