to this sacred spot leelinau had made her way at an early age , gathering strange flowers and plants , which she would bring home to her parents , and relate to them all the haps and mishaps that had occurred in her rambles . although they discountenanced her frequent visits to the place , they were not able to restrain them , for she was of so gentle and delicate a temper that they feared to thwart her . her attachment to the fairy wood , therefore , grew with her years . if she wished to solicit her spirits to procure pleasant dreams , or any other maiden favor , leelinau repaired to the manitowok . if her father remained abroad in the hunt later than usual , and it was feared that he had been overwhelmed by the tempest , or had met with some other mischance , leelinau offered up her prayers for safety at the manitowok . it was there that she fasted , mused , and strolled . she at length became so engrossed by the fairy pines that her parents began to suspect that some evil spirit had enticed her to its haunts , and had cast upon her a charm which she had not the power to resist . this belief was confirmed when , one day , her mother , who had secretly followed her , overheard her murmuring to some unknown and invisible companion , appeals like these : " spirit of the dancing leaves ! " whispered leelinau , " hear a throbbing heart in its sadness . spirit of the foaming stream ! visit thou my nightly pillow , shedding over it silver dreams of mountain brook and pebbly rivulet . spirit of the starry night ! lead my foot - prints to the blushing mis - kodeed , or where the burning passion - flower shines with carmine hue . spirit of the greenwood plume ! " she concluded , turning with passionate gaze to the beautiful young pines which stood waving their green beauty over her head , " shed on me , on leelinau the sad , thy leafy fragrance , such as spring unfolds from sweetest flowers , or hearts that to each other show their inmost grief . spirits ! hear , o hear a maiden 's prayer ! " it had been her custom to pass many of her hours in her favorite place of retirement , under a broad - topped young pine , whose leaves whispered in every wind that blew ; but most of all in that gentle murmur of the air at the evening hour , dear to lovers , when the twilight steals on . thither she now repaired , and , while reclining pensively against the young pine - tree , she fancied that she heard a voice addressing her . at first it was scarcely more than a sigh ; presently it grew more clear , and she heard it distinctly whisper-- " maiden ! think me not a tree ; but thine own dear lover ; fond to be with thee in my tall and blooming strength , with the bright green nodding plume that waves above thee . thou art leaning on my breast , leelinau ; lean forever there and be at peace . fly from men who are false and cruel , and quit the tumult of their dusty strife , for this quiet , lonely shade . 