day by day , these strange communings with unseen beings drew away the heart of leelinau more and more from the simple duties of the lodge , and she walked among her people , melancholy and silent , like a spirit who had visited them from another land . the pastimes which engaged the frolic moments of her young companions , passed by her as little trivial pageants in which she had no concern . when the girls of the neighboring lodges assembled to play at the favorite female game of pappus - e - ko - waun , or the block and string , before the lodge - door , leelinau would sit vacantly by , or enter so feebly into the spirit of the play as to show that it was irksome to her . again , in the evening , when the young people formed a ring around the lodge , and the piepeend - jigun , or leather and bone , passed rapidly from one to the other , she either handed it along without attempting to play , or if she took a part , it was with no effort to succeed . the time of the corn - gathering had come , and the young people of the tribe were assembled in the field , busy in plucking the ripened maize . one of the girls , noted for her beauty , had found a red ear , and every one congratulated her that a brave admirer was on his way to her father 's lodge . she blushed , and hiding the trophy in her bosom , she thanked the good spirit that it was a red ear , and not a crooked , that she had found . presently it chanced that one who was there among the young men , espied in the hands of leelinau , who had plucked it indifferently , one of the crooked kind , and at once the word " wa - ge - min ! " was shouted aloud through the field , and the whole circle was set in a roar . " the thief is in the corn - field ! " exclaimed the young man , iagoo by name , and famous in the tribe for his mirthful powers of story - telling ; " see you not the old man stooping as he enters the field ? see you not signs that he crouched as he crept in the dark ? is it not plain by this mark on the stalk that he was heavily bent in his back ? old man ! be nimble , or some one will take thee while thou art taking the ear . " these questions iagoo accompanied with the action of one bowed with age stealthily entering the corn - field . he went on : 