but when he got home to the castle , one of his brothers was just getting married , and the bride and all the guests were already there . they all crowded around him and asked him this , and asked him that , and wanted to lead him in . but he acted as though he saw none of them , led out the horses , and began to put them to the coach . and since they could by no manner of means induce him to come into the castle , they came out with food and drink , and offered him the best of all that had been prepared for the wedding feast . but the king 's son would taste nothing , and only made haste in order to get away . yet , finally , the bride 's sister rolled an apple over to him across the court - yard : " and if you will touch nothing else , then at least you might take a bite of the apple , for you must be hungry and thirsty after your long journey , " said she , and he took the apple and bit into it . but no sooner did he have the bit of apple in his mouth than he had forgotten the master girl , and that he was to fetch her . " i think i must be going mad ! what am i doing with the horses and the coach ? " he said , and he led back the horses into the stable , and went back to the castle , and wanted to marry the bride 's sister , the one who had thrown him the apple . when they sat down to the table the king 's son -- the same who had been at the giant's -- said it would be no more than right to invite the maiden , too , who had lent them the poker , and the door and the calf : " for if we had not had these things , we should not have moved from the spot . " this seemed right to the king , so he sent five of his most distinguished courtiers to the little golden house . they were to carry the king 's kindest greetings , and ask that the maiden come up to the castle and take dinner with them . " a kind greeting to the king , and if he is too good to come to me , then i am too good to go to him , " said the master girl . so the king had to go to her himself , and then she went along with him at once , and the king saw very well that she was more than she appeared to be , and gave her a place at the head of the table , next to the young bridegroom . after they had been at dinner for a while , the master girl produced the rooster and the hen and the golden apple -- they were the three things she had taken along from the giant 's castle -- and placed them on the table before her . at once the rooster and the hen began to fight for the golden apple . " why , just see how the two fight for the golden apple ! " said the king 's son . " yes , that is how we had to fight the time we wanted to get out of the rock ! " said the master girl . and then the king 's son recognized her , and was very happy . the witch who had rolled the apple over to him was duly punished . then the wedding really began , and the bailiff , and the clerk and the magistrate held out to the very end , for all that their wings had been so thoroughly singed . 