the following morning the bailiff came by . he was much surprised to see the little golden hut , glittering and sparkling there in the forest , and was still more surprised at the girl within the hut . he fell in love with her at once , and asked her whether she would not become the bailiff 's lady . " yes , but have you plenty of money ? " said the master girl . yes , he had quite a little , said the bailiff . then he went home to fetch his money , and came back again at evening dragging along an enormous sack of it , which he stood on a bench before the door . the master girl said that , seeing he had so much money , she would accept him . and then she asked him to rake the fire , which she said she had forgotten to do . but as soon as he had the poker in his hand , the master girl cried : " may god grant that you hold the poker , and the poker hold you , and that sparks and ashes fly around you until morning ! " and there the bailiff stood the whole night through , and sparks and ashes flew about him , nor were the sparks the less hot for all his complaining and begging . and when morning came , and he could let go the poker , he did not stay long ; but ran off as though the evil one were at his heels . and those who saw him stared and laughed , for he ran like a madman , and looked as though he had been thrashed and tanned . and all would have liked to have known where he had come from , but he said not a word , for he was ashamed . on the following day there was to be a wedding at the castle , and not only was the older prince to marry , but the one who had stayed with the giant as well , and he was to get the other bride 's sister . but when they entered the coach and were about to drive to church , one of the axles broke . they took another , and then a third , but all of them broke , no matter what kind of wood they used . it took a great deal of time , and they did not move from the spot , and got all out of sorts . then the bailiff said , for he had also been invited to the wedding at the castle , that a maiden lived out in the forest , and " if they could only get the loan of her poker , it would be sure to hold . " so they sent to the little house in the forest , and asked most politely whether the maiden would not loan them the poker of which the bailiff had spoken . and they got it , too , and then they had an axle that would not break . 