but when they wanted to drive on , the bottom of the coach broke . they made a new bottom as well as they were able , but no matter how they put it together , nor what kind of wood they used , it kept on breaking again as soon as they had left the court - yard . and they were worse off than they had been with the axle . then the clerk said -- for if the bailiff was one of the company , you may be sure they had not forgotten to invite the clerk--"out in the forest lives a maiden , and if you will get the loan of her house - door , i am sure it would not break . " so they sent to the little house in the forest , and asked most politely whether the maiden would not loan them the golden house - door , of which the clerk had told them . and they got it , too , and were about to drive on , when suddenly the horses could not draw the coach . there were six , so they put to eight , and then ten and twelve , but though they put as many as they liked to the coach and helped along with the whip , still the coach would not budge . the day was already far advanced , and they simply had to get to church , and actually began to despair . but then the magistrate said that out in the golden house in the forest lived a maiden , " and if one could only get the loan of her calf , it would be sure to pull the coach , and though it were as heavy as a bowlder . " they did not think it quite the thing to drive to church with a calf ; but still there was nothing to do but to send to the maiden , and to ask her most politely , with a kind greeting from the king , if she would loan them the calf of which the magistrate had spoken . nor did the master girl refuse them this time . and then , when they had put the calf to the coach , it moved from the spot quickly enough . it flew over stick and stone , hill and dale , so that the people inside could hardly catch their breath . first it was on the ground , and next it was in the air , and when they reached the church , it spun around it like a top , and they had the greatest difficulty in getting out and into the church . and going home they went still faster , and were nearly out of their wits by the time they reached the castle .