the next morning the giant went off again with his goats . and he told the king 's son he was to fetch his horse from the pasture , and when he had done this , he might rest : " for you have come to a kind master , " said he . " but if you enter one of the rooms which i forbade you entering yesterday , i will tear off your head , " he said , and went away with his herd . " indeed , you are a kind master , " said the king 's son , " but in spite of it i 'd like to have another little talk with the master girl , for she is just as much mine as yours , " and with that he went in to her . she asked him what work he had to do that day . " o , it is not so bad to - day , " said the king 's son . " i am only to fetch his horse from the pasture . " " and how are you going to manage that ? " asked the master girl . " surely it is no great feat to fetch a horse from pasture , " said the king 's son , " and i have ridden swift horses before . " " yet it is not an easy matter to ride this horse home , " said the master girl , " but i will tell you how to set about it . when you see the horse , he will come running up , breathing fire and flame , just as though he were a burning pine - torch . then you must take the bit that is hanging here on the door , and throw it into his mouth . then he will grow so tame that you can do what you will with him . " he would take good note of it , said the king 's son . he sat there with the master girl the whole day long . they chatted and talked about this and that , but mainly about how delightful it would be , and what a pleasant time they could have , if they could only marry and get away from the giant . and the king 's son would have forgotten the pasture and the horse altogether , had not the master girl reminded him of them toward evening . he took the bit that hung in the corner , hurried out to the pasture , and the horse at once ran up , breathing fire and flame . he seized the moment when he came running up to him with his jaws wide open , and threw the bit into his mouth . then he stood still , as gentle as a young lamb , and he had no trouble bringing him to the stable . then he went to his room again , and began to whistle and sing .