he would take good note of it , said the king 's son , and he sat there with the master girl all day long until evening . he might be sitting there yet , if the master girl had not reminded him that he must still go to the devil about the tribute before the giant came home . so he set out , and did exactly as the master girl had told him : he went to the rock , took the club and beat against it . then one came out from whose eyes and nose the sparks flew . " what do you want ? " he asked . " the giant has sent me to fetch his tribute , " said the king 's son . " how much do you want ? " the other again inquired . " i never ask for more than i can carry , " was the reply of the king 's son . " it is lucky for you that you did not ask for a whole ton at once , " said the one on the hill . " but come in with me , and wait a while . " this the king 's son did , and saw a great deal of gold and silver lying in the hill like dead rock in an ore - pile . then as much as he could carry was packed up , and with it he went his way . when the giant came home in the evening with his goats , the king 's son was running about the room , whistling and singing as on the two preceding evenings . " did you go to the devil for the tribute ? " asked the giant . " yes , indeed , master , " said the king 's son . " where did you put it ? " asked the giant again . " i stood the sack of gold outside on the bench , " was the reply . " i must see that at once , " said the giant , and went over to the bench . but the sack was really standing there , and it was so full that the gold and silver rolled right out when the giant loosened the string . " you surely must have spoken to my master girl , " said the giant . " if that is the case i will tear your head off . " " with your master girl ? " said the king 's son . " yesterday master talked about that master girl , and to - day he is talking about her again , and the day before yesterday he talked about her , too ! i only wish that i might get the chance to see her sometime ! " said he . " well , just wait until to - morrow , " said the giant , " and then i will lead you to her myself , " he said . " a thousand thanks , master , " said the king 's son , " but i think you are only joking ! " the following day the giant took him to the master girl .