and from this time the weight of sorrow was greatly lightened for her young heart . every morning , to gather strength for the day 's duties before her , and every evening , for consolation before she lay down to rest , did the young girl take out the mirror and gaze at the reflection which in the simplicity of her innocent heart she believed to be her mother 's soul . daily she grew in the likeness of her dead mother 's character , and was gentle and kind to all , and a dutiful daughter to her father . a year spent in mourning had thus passed away in the little household , when , by the advice of his relations , the man married again , and the daughter now found herself under the authority of a step - mother . it was a trying position ; but her days spent in the recollection of her own beloved mother , and of trying to be what that mother would wish her to be , had made the young girl docile and patient , and she now determined to be filial and dutiful to her father 's wife , in all respects . everything went on apparently smoothly in the family for some time under the new regime ; there were no winds or waves of discord to ruffle the surface of every - day life , and the father was content . she watched the girl carefully , and one day peeping into her room in the early morning , she thought she discovered a grave enough sin of which to accuse the child to her father . the woman herself was a little frightened too at what she had seen . so she went at once to her husband , and wiping away some false tears she said in a sad voice : " please give me permission to leave you today . " the man was completely taken by surprise at the suddenness of her request , and wondered whatever was the matter . " do you find it so disagreeable , " he asked , " in my house , that you can stay no longer ? " " no ! no ! it has nothing to do with you - even in my dreams i have never thought that i wished to leave your side ; but if i go on living here i am in danger of losing my life , so i think it best for all concerned that you should allow me to go home ! " 