the wife took the box , and opening it carefully took out a metal disk with a handle attached . one side was bright and shining like a crystal , and the other was covered with raised figures of pine - trees and storks , which had been carved out of its smooth surface in lifelike reality . never had she seen such a thing in her life , for she had been born and bred in the rural province of echigo . she gazed into the shining disk , and looking up with surprise and wonder pictured on her face , she said : " i see somebody looking at me in this round thing ! what is it that you have given me ? " the husband laughed and said : " why , it is your own face that you see . what i have brought you is called a mirror , and whoever looks into its clear surface can see their own form reflected there . although there are none to be found in this out of the way place , yet they have been in use in the capital from the most ancient times . there the mirror is considered a very necessary requisite for a woman to possess . there is an old proverb that ' as the sword is the soul of a samurai , so is the mirror the soul of a woman , ' and according to popular tradition , a woman 's mirror is an index to her own heart - if she keeps it bright and clear , so is her heart pure and good . it is also one of the treasures that form the insignia of the emperor . so you must lay great store by your mirror , and use it carefully . " in the first days of her illness the father and daughter thought that it was only a cold , and were not particularly anxious . but the days went by and still the mother did not get better . she only grew worse , and the doctor was puzzled , for in spite of all he did the poor woman grew weaker day by day . the father and daughter were stricken with grief , and day or night the girl never left her mother 's side . but in spite of all their efforts the woman 's life was not to be saved . one day as the girl sat near her mother 's bed , trying to hide with a cheery smile the gnawing trouble at her heart , the mother roused herself and taking her daughter 's hand , gazed earnestly and lovingly into her eyes . her breath was labored and she spoke with difficulty : " my daughter . i am sure that nothing can save me now . when i am dead , promise me to take care of your dear father and to try to be a good and dutiful woman . " " oh , mother , " said the girl as the tears rushed to her eyes , " you must not say such things . all you have to do is to make haste and get well - that will bring the greatest happiness to father and myself . " " yes , i know , and it is a comfort to me in my last days to know how greatly you long for me to get better , but it is not to be . do not look so sorrowful , for it was so ordained in my previous state of existence that i should die in this life just at this time . knowing this , i am quite resigned to my fate . and now i have something to give you whereby to remember me when i am gone . " 