the girl had for a long time past been very unhappy . she had tried by amiability and obedience to show her goodwill and to mollify the new wife , and to break down that wall of prejudice and misunderstanding that she knew generally stood between step - parents and their step - children . but she soon found that her efforts were in vain . the step - mother never trusted her , and seemed to misinterpret all her actions , and the poor child knew very well that she often carried unkind and untrue tales to her father . she could not help comparing her present unhappy condition with the time when her own mother was alive only a little more than a year ago - so great a change in this short time ! morning and evening she wept over the remembrance . whenever she could she went to her room , and sliding the screens to , took out the mirror and gazed , as she thought , at her mother 's face . it was the only comfort that she had in these wretched days . her father found her occupied in this way . pushing aside the fusama , he saw her bending over something or other very intently . looking over her shoulder , to see who was entering her room , the girl was surprised to see her father , for he generally sent for her when he wished to speak to her . she was also confused at being found looking at the mirror , for she had never told any one of her mother 's last promise , but had kept it as the sacred secret of her heart . so before turning to her father she slipped the mirror into her long sleeve . her father noting her confusion , and her act of hiding something , said in a severe manner : " daughter , what are you doing here ? and what is that that you have hidden in your sleeve ? " the girl was frightened by her father 's severity . never had he spoken to her in such a tone . her confusion changed to apprehension , her color from scarlet to white . she sat dumb and shamefaced , unable to reply . appearances were certainly against her ; the young girl looked guilty , and the father thinking that perhaps after all what his wife had told him was true , spoke angrily : " then , is it really true that you are daily cursing your step - mother and praying for her death ? have you forgotten what i told you , that although she is your step - mother you must be obedient and loyal to her ? what evil spirit has taken possession of your heart that you should be so wicked ? you have certainly changed , my daughter ! what has made you so disobedient and unfaithful ? " and the father 's eyes filled with sudden tears to think that he should have to upbraid his daughter in this way . 