he went down to his wife , and sat down in a chair , and gave a groan , and the chair broke in pieces . " it is the son of a king under spells you are , " said his wife , " and you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you . " he said to her to bring news of the death of anshgayliacht and the sword of light to the slender red champion . " go out , " said she , " in the morning of the morrow , and take the bridle in the window and shake it . whatever beast , handsome or ugly , puts the head in it , take that one with you . do not speak a word to her till she speaks to you . take with you three pint bottles of ale and three sixpenny loaves , and do the thing she tells you . when she runs to my father 's land , on a height above the court , she will shake herself , and the bells will ring , and my father will say brown allree is in the land . and if the son of a king or queen is there , bring him to me on your shoulders . if it is the son of a poor man , let him come no further . " he rose in the morning , and took the bridle that was in the window and went out and shook it , and brown allree came and put her head in it . and he took the three loaves and three bottles of ale , and went riding . when he was riding , she bent her head down to take hold of her feet with her mouth , in hopes he would speak in ignorance . he spoke not a word during the time , and the mare at last spoke to him , and said to him to dismount and give her her dinner . he gave her the sixpenny loaf toasted and a bottle of ale to drink . " sit up , now , riding and take good heed of yourself : there are three miles of fire i have to clear at a leap . " she cleared the three miles of fire at a leap , and asked if he were riding , and he said he was . they went on then , and she told him to dismount and give her a meal . he did so , and gave her a sixpenny loaf and a bottle . she consumed them , and said to him there were before them three miles of hill covered with steel thistles , and that she must clear it . and she cleared the hill with a leap , and she asked him if he were still riding , and he said he was . they went on , and she went not far before she told him to give her a meal , and he gave her the bread and the bottleful . and she went over three miles of sea with a leap , and she came then to the land of the king of france . she went up on a height above the castle , and she shook herself and neighed , and the bells rang . the king said that it was brown allree was in the land . " go out , " said he , " and if it is the son of a king or queen , carry him in on your shoulders ; if it is not , leave him there . " they went out , and the stars of the son of a king were on his breast ; and they lifted him high on their shoulders and bore him in to the king . and they passed the night cheerfully with playing and with drinking , with sport and with diversion , till the whiteness of the day came upon the morrow morning . then the young king told the cause of his journey , and he asked of the queen her counsel and consent , and to give him counsel and good luck , and the woman told him everything she advised him to do . " go now , " said she , " and take with you the best mare in the stable , and go to the door of rough niall of the speckled rock , and knock , and call on him to give you news of the death of anshgayliacht and the sword of light ; and let the horse 's back be to the door , and apply the spurs , and away with you ! " 