" oh , it 's nothing but the truth you have . " the king did not allow me to be tied any more . he said there was nothing so much to wonder at as that i cut the hand off , and i tied . the child was growing till he was a year old , and he was beginning to walk , and there was no one caring for him more than i was . he was growing till he was three , and he was running out every minute . so the king ordered a silver chain to be put between me and the child , so that he might not go away from me . i was out with him in the garden every day , and the king was as proud as the world of the child . he would be watching him every place we went , till the child grew so wise that he would loose the chain and get off . but one day that he loosed it i failed to find him . i ran into the house and searched the house , but there was no getting him for me . the king cried to go out and find the child , that he had got loose from the dog . they went searching for him , but they could not find him . when they failed altogether to find him , there remained no more favour with the king towards me , and everyone disliked me , and i grew weak , for i did not get a morsel to eat half the time . when summer came i said i would try and go home to my own country . i went away one fine morning , and i went swimming , and god helped me till i came home . i went into the garden , for i knew there was a place in the garden where i could hide myself , for fear she should see me . in the morning i saw my wife out walking , and my child with her , held by the hand . i pushed out to see the child , and , as he was looking about him everywhere , he saw me , and called out , " i see my shaggy papa . oh , " said he ; " oh , my heart 's love , my shaggy papa , come here till i see you . " i was afraid the woman would see me , as she was asking the child where he saw me , and he said i was up in a tree . the more the child called me , the more i hid myself . the woman took the child home with her , but i knew he would be up early in the morning . i went to the parlour window , and the child was within , and he playing . when he saw me , he cried out , " oh , my heart 's love , come here till i see you , shaggy papa . " i broke the window , and went in , and he began to kiss me . i saw the rod in front of the chimney , and i jumped up at the rod and knocked it down . " oh , my heart 's love , no one would give me the pretty rod . " i thought he would strike me with the rod , but he did not . when i saw the time was short , i raised my paw , and i gave him a scratch below the knee . " oh , you naughty , dirty , shaggy papa ! you have hurt me so much -- i'll give yourself a blow of the rod . " he struck me a light blow , and as there was no sin on him , i came back to my own shape again . when he saw a man standing before him he gave a cry , and i took him up in my arms . the servants heard the child . a maid came in to see what was the matter with him . when she saw me she gave a cry out of her , and she said , " oh , my soul to god , if the master is n't come to life again . " another came in , and said it was he , really . and when the mistress heard of it , she came to see with her own eyes , for she would not believe i was there . when she saw me she said she 'd drown herself . and i said to her , " if you yourself will keep the secret , no living man will ever get the story from me until i lose my head . " many 's the man has come asking for the story , and i never let one return ; but now everyone will know it , but she is as much to blame as i. i gave you my head on the spot , and a thousand welcomes , and she can not say i have been telling anything but the truth . 