" oh , he will not kill me . he knew me ; and must be pardoned . " and the king took me home with him , and gave orders that i should be well cared for . i was so wise when i got food i would not eat one morsel until i got a knife and fork . the man told the king , and the king came to see if it was true , and i got a knife and fork , and i took the knife in one paw and the fork in the other , and i bowed to the king . the king gave orders to bring him drink , and it came ; and the king filled a glass of wine , and gave it to me . i took hold of it in my paw , and drank it , and thanked the king . " oh , on my honour , it is some king that has lost him when he came on the island ; and i will keep him , as he is trained . perhaps he will serve us yet . " and this is the sort of king he was -- a king who had not a child living . eight sons were born to him and three daughters , and they were stolen the same night they were born . no matter what guard was placed over them , the child would be gone in the morning . the queen was now carrying the twelfth child , and when she was lying - in , the king took me with him to watch the baby . the women were not satisfied with me . " oh , " said the king , " what was all your watching ever ? one that was born to me i have not ; and i will leave this one in the dog 's care , and he will not let it go . " a coupling was put between me and the cradle , and when everyone went to sleep i was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime ; but i was there only two nights when , it was near the day , i saw the hand coming down through the chimney , and the hand was so big that it took round the child altogether , and thought to take him away . i caught hold of the hand above the wrist , and , as i was fastened to the cradle , i did not let go my hold till i cut the hand from the wrist , and there was a howl from the person without . i laid the hand in the cradle with the child , and , as i was tired , i fell asleep . when i awoke i had neither child nor hand . i began to howl , and the king heard me , and he cried out that something was wrong with me , and he sent servants to see what was the matter with me , and when the messenger came he saw me covered with blood , and he could not see the child . he went to the king , and told him the child was not to be got . the king came , and saw the cradle coloured with the blood , and he cried out , " where was the child gone ? " and everyone said it was the dog had eaten it . the king said , " it is not : loose him , and he will get the pursuit himself . " when i was loosed , i found the scent of the blood till i came to a door of the room in which the child was . i went to the king , and took hold of him , and went back again , and began to tear at the door . the king followed me , and asked for the key . the servant said it was in the room of the stranger woman . the king caused search to be made for her , and she was not to be found . " i will break the door , " said the king , " as i ca n't get the key . " the king broke the door , and i went in , and went to the trunk , and the king asked for a key to unlock it . he got no key , and he broke the lock . when he opened the trunk the child and the hand were stretched side by side , and the child was asleep . the king took the hand , and ordered a woman to come for the child , and he showed the hand to everyone in the house . but the stranger woman was gone , and she did not see the king ; and here she is herself to say if i am telling lies of her . 