the hag brought them out of the room . i said i would burn the flesh that was on his arm . when i looked on him he was howling with pain . i said that i would not leave him in pain long . the thief had only one eye in his forehead . i took a bar of iron , and put it in the fire till it was red , and i said to the hag , " he will be howling at first , but will fall asleep presently , and do not wake him until he has slept as much as he wants . i will close the door when i am going out . " i took the bar with me , and i stood over him , and i turned it across through his eye as far as i could . he began to bellow , and tried to catch me , but i was out and away , having closed the door . the hag asked me , " why is he bellowing ? " " oh , he will be quiet presently , and will sleep for a good while , and i 'll come again to have a look at him . bring me out the young men and the young women . " i took them with me , and i said to her , " tell me where you got them . " " oh , my son brought them with him , and they are the offspring of the one king . " i was well satisfied , and i had no liking for delay to get myself free from the hag , and i took them on board the ship , and the child i had myself . i thought the king might leave me the child i nursed myself . but when i came to land , and all those young people with me , the king and queen were out walking . the king was very aged , and the queen aged likewise . when i came to converse with them , and the twelve with me , the king and queen began to cry . i asked , " why are you crying ? " " oh , it is for good cause i am crying . as many children as these i should have , and now i am withered , grey , at the end of my life , and i have not one at all . " " oh , belike , you will yet have plenty . " i told him all i went through , and i gave him the child in his hand , and : " these are your other children who were stolen from you , whom i am giving to you safe . they are gently reared . " when the king heard who they were , he smothered them with kisses and drowned them with tears , and dried them with fine cloths , silken , and the hairs of his own head , and so also did their mother , and great was his welcome for me , as it was i who found them all . and the king said to me , " i will give you your own child , as it is you who have earned him best ; but you must come to my court every year , and the child with you , and i will share with you my possessions . " " oh , i have enough of my own , and after my death i will leave it to the child . " i spent a time till my visit was over , and i told the king all the troubles i went through , only i said nothing about my wife . and now you have the story of the death of anshgayliacht , the hag 's son . and morraha thanked rough niall for the story , and he struck the ground with the sword of light , and brown allree was beside of him and she said to him , " sit up , now , riding , and take good heed of yourself , " and at one leap she cleared the sea and at the next the three miles of hill covered with steel thistles and at the third the three miles of fire , and then he was home and he told the tale of the death of anshgayliacht to the slender red champion and gave him the sword of light , and he was well pleased to get them , and he took the spells of morraha , and he had his wife and his castle back again , and by - and - by the five children ; but he never put his hand to card - playing with strangers again . 