morraha rose in the morning , and washed his hands and face , and said his prayers , and ate his food . he asked god to prosper the day for him ; and he went down to the brink of the sea , and he saw a currach , short and green , coming towards him . in it there was but one youthful champion , and he playing hurly from prow to stern of the currach . he had a hurl of gold and a ball of silver . he stopped not until the currach was in on the shore . he drew her up on the green grass , and put fastening on her for a day and a year , whether he should be there all that time , or should only be on land for an hour by the clock . and morraha saluted the young man in words intelligent , intelligible , such as were spoken at that time . the other saluted him in the same fashion , and asked him would he play a game of cards with him ; and morraha said he had not the wherewithal . the other answered that he was never without a candle or the making of it . he put his hand in his pocket and drew out a table and two chairs and a pack of cards , and they sat down on the chairs and went to the card - playing . the first game morraha won , and the slender red champion bade him make his claim . he said that the land above him should be filled with stock of sheep in the morning . it was well , and he played no second game , but home he went . the next day morraha went to the brink of the sea , and the young man came in the currach and asked him would he play cards . they played , and morraha won . and the young man bade him make his claim . he said that the land above should be filled with cattle in the morning . it was well , and he played no other game , but went home . and on the third morning morraha went to the brink of the sea , and he saw the young man coming . and he drew up his boat on the shore , and asked him would he play cards . and they played , and morraha won the game . the young man bade him give his claim . and he said he should have a castle , and of women the finest and fairest ; and they were his . it was well , and the young man went away . on the fourth day the woman asked him how he had found himself , and he told her . " and i am going out , " said he , " to play again to - day . " " i cross ( forbid ) you go again to him . if you have won so much , you will lose more . have no more to do with him . " but he went against her will , and he saw the currach coming , and the young man was driving his balls from end to end of the currach . he had balls of silver and a hurl of gold , and he stopped not till he drew his boat on the shore , and made her fast for a year and a day . and morraha and he saluted each other . he asked morraha if he would play a game of cards , and they played and he won . and morraha said to him , " give your claim , now . " said he , " you will hear it too soon . i lay on you the bonds of the art of the druid not to sleep two nights in one house , nor finish a second meal at the one table , till you bring me the sword of light and news of the death of anshgayliacht . " 