a coupling was put between me and the cradle , and when everyone went to sleep i was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime ; but i was there only two nights when , it was near the day , i saw the hand coming down through the chimney , and the hand was so big that it took round the child altogether , and thought to take him away . i caught hold of the hand above the wrist , and , as i was fastened to the cradle , i did not let go my hold till i cut the hand from the wrist , and there was a howl from the person without . i laid the hand in the cradle with the child , and , as i was tired , i fell asleep . when i awoke i had neither child nor hand . i began to howl , and the king heard me , and he cried out that something was wrong with me , and he sent servants to see what was the matter with me , and when the messenger came he saw me covered with blood , and he could not see the child . he went to the king , and told him the child was not to be got . the king came , and saw the cradle coloured with the blood , and he cried out , " where was the child gone ? " and everyone said it was the dog had eaten it . the king said , " it is not : loose him , and he will get the pursuit himself . " when i was loosed , i found the scent of the blood till i came to a door of the room in which the child was . i went to the king , and took hold of him , and went back again , and began to tear at the door . the king followed me , and asked for the key . the servant said it was in the room of the stranger woman . the king caused search to be made for her , and she was not to be found . " i will break the door , " said the king , " as i ca n't get the key . " the king broke the door , and i went in , and went to the trunk , and the king asked for a key to unlock it . he got no key , and he broke the lock . when he opened the trunk the child and the hand were stretched side by side , and the child was asleep . the king took the hand , and ordered a woman to come for the child , and he showed the hand to everyone in the house . but the stranger woman was gone , and she did not see the king ; and here she is herself to say if i am telling lies of her . " oh , surely , nor are you now . " when i saw i was in a man 's shape i said i would take the child back to his father and mother , as i knew the grief they were in after him . i got a ship , and took the child with me . when i was journeying i came to land on an island , and i saw not a living soul on it , only a court , dark and gloomy . i went in to see was there anyone in it . there was no one but an old hag , tall and frightful , and she asked me , " what sort of person are you ? " i heard someone groaning in another room , and i said i was a doctor , and i asked her what ailed the person who was groaning . " oh , " said she , " it is my son , whose hand has been bitten from his wrist by a dog . " i knew then it was the boy who was taking the child from me , and i said i would cure him if i got a good reward . " i have nothing , but there are eight young lads and three young women , as handsome as anyone laid eyes on , and if you cure him i will give you them . " " but tell me in what place his hand was cut from . " " oh , it was out in another country twelve years ago . " " show me the way , that i may see him . " she brought me into a room , so that i saw him , and his arm was swelled up to the shoulder . he asked if i would cure him . i said i could cure him if he would give me the reward his mother promised . " oh , i will give it , but cure me . " " well , bring them out to me . " 