" oh , he will not kill me . he knew me ; and must be pardoned . " and the king took me home with him , and gave orders that i should be well cared for . i was so wise when i got food i would not eat one morsel until i got a knife and fork . the man told the king , and the king came to see if it was true , and i got a knife and fork , and i took the knife in one paw and the fork in the other , and i bowed to the king . the king gave orders to bring him drink , and it came ; and the king filled a glass of wine , and gave it to me . i took hold of it in my paw , and drank it , and thanked the king . " oh , on my honour , it is some king that has lost him when he came on the island ; and i will keep him , as he is trained . perhaps he will serve us yet . " and this is the sort of king he was -- a king who had not a child living . eight sons were born to him and three daughters , and they were stolen the same night they were born . no matter what guard was placed over them , the child would be gone in the morning . the queen was now carrying the twelfth child , and when she was lying - in , the king took me with him to watch the baby . the women were not satisfied with me . " oh , " said the king , " what was all your watching ever ? one that was born to me i have not ; and i will leave this one in the dog 's care , and he will not let it go . " " oh , surely , nor are you now . " when i saw i was in a man 's shape i said i would take the child back to his father and mother , as i knew the grief they were in after him . i got a ship , and took the child with me . when i was journeying i came to land on an island , and i saw not a living soul on it , only a court , dark and gloomy . i went in to see was there anyone in it . there was no one but an old hag , tall and frightful , and she asked me , " what sort of person are you ? " i heard someone groaning in another room , and i said i was a doctor , and i asked her what ailed the person who was groaning . " oh , " said she , " it is my son , whose hand has been bitten from his wrist by a dog . " i knew then it was the boy who was taking the child from me , and i said i would cure him if i got a good reward . " i have nothing , but there are eight young lads and three young women , as handsome as anyone laid eyes on , and if you cure him i will give you them . " " but tell me in what place his hand was cut from . " " oh , it was out in another country twelve years ago . " " show me the way , that i may see him . " she brought me into a room , so that i saw him , and his arm was swelled up to the shoulder . he asked if i would cure him . i said i could cure him if he would give me the reward his mother promised . " oh , i will give it , but cure me . " " well , bring them out to me . " 