and on the third morning morraha went to the brink of the sea , and he saw the young man coming . and he drew up his boat on the shore , and asked him would he play cards . and they played , and morraha won the game . the young man bade him give his claim . and he said he should have a castle , and of women the finest and fairest ; and they were his . it was well , and the young man went away . on the fourth day the woman asked him how he had found himself , and he told her . " and i am going out , " said he , " to play again to - day . " " i cross ( forbid ) you go again to him . if you have won so much , you will lose more . have no more to do with him . " but he went against her will , and he saw the currach coming , and the young man was driving his balls from end to end of the currach . he had balls of silver and a hurl of gold , and he stopped not till he drew his boat on the shore , and made her fast for a year and a day . and morraha and he saluted each other . he asked morraha if he would play a game of cards , and they played and he won . and morraha said to him , " give your claim , now . " said he , " you will hear it too soon . i lay on you the bonds of the art of the druid not to sleep two nights in one house , nor finish a second meal at the one table , till you bring me the sword of light and news of the death of anshgayliacht . " he went down to his wife , and sat down in a chair , and gave a groan , and the chair broke in pieces . " it is the son of a king under spells you are , " said his wife , " and you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you . " he said to her to bring news of the death of anshgayliacht and the sword of light to the slender red champion . " go out , " said she , " in the morning of the morrow , and take the bridle in the window and shake it . whatever beast , handsome or ugly , puts the head in it , take that one with you . do not speak a word to her till she speaks to you . take with you three pint bottles of ale and three sixpenny loaves , and do the thing she tells you . when she runs to my father 's land , on a height above the court , she will shake herself , and the bells will ring , and my father will say brown allree is in the land . and if the son of a king or queen is there , bring him to me on your shoulders . if it is the son of a poor man , let him come no further . " he rose in the morning , and took the bridle that was in the window and went out and shook it , and brown allree came and put her head in it . and he took the three loaves and three bottles of ale , and went riding . when he was riding , she bent her head down to take hold of her feet with her mouth , in hopes he would speak in ignorance . he spoke not a word during the time , and the mare at last spoke to him , and said to him to dismount and give her her dinner . he gave her the sixpenny loaf toasted and a bottle of ale to drink . " sit up , now , riding and take good heed of yourself : there are three miles of fire i have to clear at a leap . " 