in the middle of the night he woke , feeling that he had been disturbed , and putting his hand under his pillow found to his horror that his bag of money had been stolen . he jumped up quietly and began to prowl around to see whether anyone seemed to be awake , but , though he managed to arouse a few men and beasts by falling over them , he walked in the shadow of the archways round the whole serai without coming across a likely thief . he was just about to give it up when he overheard two men whispering , and one laughed softly , and peering behind a pillar , he saw two afghan horsedealers counting out his bag of money ! then moti went back to bed ! in the morning moti followed the two afghans outside the city to the horsemarket in which they horses were offered for sale . choosing the best - looking horse amongst them he went up to it and said : ' is this horse for sale ? may i try it ? ' and , the merchants assenting , he scrambled up on its back , dug in his heels , and off they flew . now moti had never been on a horse in his life , and had so much ado to hold on with both hands as well as with both legs that the animal went just where it liked , and very soon broke into a break - neck gallop and made straight back to the serai where it had spent the last few nights . ' this will do very well , ' thought moti as they whirled in at the entrance . as soon as the horse had arrived at its table it stopped of its own accord and moti immediately rolled off ; but he jumped up at once , tied the beast up , and called for some breakfast . presently the afghans appeared , out of breath and furious , and claimed the horse . ' what do you mean ? ' cried moti , with his mouth full of rice , ' it 's my horse ; i paid you fifty pieces of silver for it -- quite a bargain , i 'm sure ! ' ' nonsense ! it is our horse , ' answered one of the afghans beginning to untie the bridle . ' leave off , ' shouted moti , seizing his staff ; ' if you do n't let my horse alone i 'll crack your skulls ! you thieves ! i know you ! last night you took my money , so to - day i took your horse ; that 's fair enough ! ' 