far in advance , moti continued his wild career . presently in his course he came to a great field of castor - oil plants , ten or twelve feet high , big and bushy , but quite green and soft . hoping to escape from the back of his fiery steed moti grasped one in passing , but its roots gave way , and he dashed on , with the whole plant looking like a young tree flourishing in his grip . the enemy were in battle array , advancing over the plain , their king with them confident and cheerful , when suddenly from the front came a desperate rider at a furious gallop . ' sire ! ' he cried , ' save yourself ! the enemy are coming ! ' ' what do you mean ? ' said the king . ' oh , sire ! ' panted the messenger , ' fly at once , there is no time to lose . foremost of the enemy rides a mad giant at a furious gallop . he flourishes a tree for a club and is wild with anger , for as he goes he cries , " you wait till i get hold of you ! i 'll skin you alive ! i 'll wring your neck ! i 'll break every bone in your body ! " others ride behind , and you will do well to retire before this whirlwind of destruction comes upon you . ' just then out of a cloud of dust in the distance the king saw moti approaching at a hard gallop , looking indeed like a giant compared with the little beast he rode , whirling his castor - oil plant , which in the distance might have been an oak tree , and the sound of his revilings and shoutings came down upon the breeze ! behind him the dust cloud moved to the sound of the thunder of hoofs , whilst here and there flashed the glitter of steel . the sight and the sound struck terror into the king , and , turning his horse , he fled at top speed , thinking that a regiment of yelling giants was upon him ; and all his force followed him as fast as they might go . one fat officer alone could not keep up on foot with that mad rush , and as moti came galloping up he flung himself on the ground in abject fear . this was too much for moti 's excited pony , who shied so suddenly that moti went flying over his head like a sky rocket , and alighted right on the top of his fat foe . quickly regaining his feet moti began to swing his plant round his head and to shout : ' where are your men ? bring them up and i 'll kill them . my regiments ! come on , the whole lot of you ! where 's your king ? bring him to me . here are all my fine fellows coming up and we 'll each pull up a tree by the roots and lay you all flat and your houses and towns and everything else ! come on ! ' 