then murmur goose - egg went into the smithy , and had the smith make an iron ax of five hundred - weights . with that he went into the forest and began to chop . he chopped down big pine and fir trees , as thick as masts , and all that he found on the king 's ground , as well as what he found on that of his neighbors . but he cut off neither the branches nor the tree - tops , so that all lay there as though felled by the storm . then he loaded a sizable stack on the sled , and put to the horses . but they could not move the load from the spot . so he unharnessed them , and put himself to the sled , and went off alone with the load . when he came to the king 's castle , there stood the king with the master carpenter in the entrance , and they were ready to give him a warm reception , because of the destruction he had wrought in the forest . for the master carpenter had been there and seen the havoc he had made . but when murmur goose - egg came along with half the forest , the king grew frightened as well as angry , and he thought that if murmur was so strong , it would be best to handle him with care . " why , you are a splendid workman , " said the king , " but tell me , how much do you really eat at once , " he continued , " for i am sure you are hungry ? " if he were to have enough porridge , they would have to take twelve tons of meal to make it . after he had eaten that , then he could wait a while , said murmur goose - egg . it took some time before so much porridge could be prepared , and in the meantime murmur was to carry wood into the kitchen . so he piled the whole load of wood on a sled . when he drove it through the door , he did not go to work about it very gently . the house nearly broke from its joints , and he well - nigh tore down the entire castle . when at last dinner was ready , they sent him out into the field , to call the help . he called so loudly that hill and vale reechoed the sound . but still the people did not come quick enough to suit him . so he picked a quarrel with them , and killed twelve . when murmur goose - egg had nearly finished threshing , the enemy broke into the land , and war began . then the king told him to gather people about him , and go to meet the foe , and do battle with him , for he thought the enemy would probably kill him . no , said murmur goose - egg , he did not want to have the king 's people killed . he would see that he dealt with the enemy himself . all the better , thought the king , then i am sure to get rid of him . but he would need a proper club , said murmur . 