but he welcomed her as if she were known to him and he asked her wherefore she was come . " i am come , " she said , " because i am beloved of murtough , son of erc , king of erin , and i come to seek him here . " then murtough was glad , and he said , " dost thou not know me , maiden ? " " i do , " she answered , " for all secret and mysterious things are known to me and thou and all the men of erin are well known . " after he had conversed with her awhile , she appeared to him so fair that the king was ready to promise her anything in life she wished , so long as she would go with him to cletty of the boyne . " my wish , " she said , " is that you take me to your house , and that you put out from it your wife and your children because they are of the new faith , and all the clerics that are in your house , and that neither your wife nor any cleric be permitted to enter the house while i am there . " " i will give you , " said the king , " a hundred head of every herd of cattle that is within my kingdom , and a hundred drinking horns , and a hundred cups , and a hundred rings of gold , and a feast every other night in the summer palace of cletty . but i pledge thee my word , oh , maiden , it were easier for me to give thee half of ireland than to do this thing that thou hast asked . " for murtough feared that when those that were of the christian faith were put out of his house , she would work her spells upon him , and no power would be left with him to resist those spells . " i will not take thy gifts , " said the damsel , " but only those things that i have asked ; moreover , it is thus , that my name must never be uttered by thee , nor must any man or woman learn it . " " what is thy name , " said murtough , " that it may not come upon my lips to utter it ? " and she said , " sigh , sough , storm , rough wind , winter night , cry , wail , groan , this is my name , but men call me sheen , for ' storm ' or sheen is my chief name , and storms are with me where i come . " nevertheless , murtough was so fascinated by her that he brought her to his home , and drove out the clerics that were there , with his wife and children along with them , and drove out also the nobles of his own clan , the children of niall , two great and gallant battalions . and duivsech , his wife , went crying along the road with her children around her to seek bishop cairnech , the half - brother of her husband , and her own soul - friend , that she might obtain help and shelter from him . and the king was astonished at her , and he began to ask her questions , for it seemed to him that the power of a great goddess of the ancient time was in her ; and he asked her whence she came , and what manner was the power that he saw in her . he asked her , too , did she believe in the god of the clerics , or was she herself some goddess of the older world ? for he feared her , feeling that his fate was in her hands . she laughed a careless and a cruel laugh , for she knew that the king was in their power , now that she was there alone with him , and the clerics and the christian teachers gone . " fear me not , o murtough , " she cried ; " i am , like thee , a daughter of the race of men of the ancient family of adam and of eve ; fit and meet my comradeship with thee ; therefore , fear not nor regret . 