and out of stones and sods of earth she fashioned three battalions , and one of the battalions she placed at one side of the house , and the other at the further side beyond it , and one encircling the rest southward along the hollow windings of the glen . and thus were these battalions , one of them all made of men stark - naked and their colour blue , and the second with heads of goats with shaggy beards and horned ; but the third , more terrible than they , for these were headless men , fighting like human beings , yet finished at the neck ; and the sound of heavy shouting as of hosts and multitudes came from the first and the second battalion , but from the third no sound save only that they waved their arms and struck their weapons together , and smote the ground with their feet impatiently . and though terrible was the shout of the blue men and the bleating of the goats with human limbs , more horrible yet was the stamping and the rage of those headless men , finished at the neck . and murtough , in his sleep and in his dreams , heard the battle - shout , and he rose impetuously from off his bed , but the wine overcame him , and his strength departed from him , and he fell helplessly upon the floor . then he heard the challenge a second time , and the stamping of the feet without , and he rose again , and madly , fiercely , he set on them , charging the hosts and scattering them before him , as he thought , as far as the fairy palace of the brugh . but all his strength was lost in fighting phantoms , for they were but stones and sods and withered leaves of the forest that he took for fighting men . now duivsech , murtough 's wife , knew what was going on . she called upon cairnech to arise and to gather together the clans of the children of his people , the men of owen and of niall , and together they went to the fort ; but sheen guarded it well , so that they could by no means find an entrance . then she went everywhere throughout the house , and took lighted brands and burning torches , and scattered them in every part of the dwelling . and she returned into the room wherein murtough slept , and lay down by his side . and she caused a great wind to spring up , and it came soughing through the house from the north - west ; and the king said , " this is the sigh of the winter night . " and sheen smiled , because , unwittingly , the king had spoken her name , for she knew by that that the hour of her revenge had come . " it is i myself that am sigh and winter night , " she said , " and i am rough wind and storm , a daughter of fair nobles ; and i am cry and wail , the maid of elfin birth , who brings ill - luck to men . " after that she caused a great snowstorm to come round the house ; and like the noise of troops and the rage of battle was the storm , beating and pouring in on every side , so that drifts of deep snow were piled against the walls , blocking the doors and chilling the folk that were feasting within the house . but the king was lying in a heavy , unresting sleep , and sheen was at his side . suddenly he screamed out of his sleep and stirred himself , for he heard the crash of falling timbers and the noise of the magic hosts , and he smelled the strong smell of fire in the palace . he sprang up . " it seems to me , " he cried , " that hosts of demons are around the house , and that they are slaughtering my people , and that the house of cletty is on fire . " " it was but a dream , " the witch maiden said . 