then she went everywhere throughout the house , and took lighted brands and burning torches , and scattered them in every part of the dwelling . and she returned into the room wherein murtough slept , and lay down by his side . and she caused a great wind to spring up , and it came soughing through the house from the north - west ; and the king said , " this is the sigh of the winter night . " and sheen smiled , because , unwittingly , the king had spoken her name , for she knew by that that the hour of her revenge had come . " it is i myself that am sigh and winter night , " she said , " and i am rough wind and storm , a daughter of fair nobles ; and i am cry and wail , the maid of elfin birth , who brings ill - luck to men . " after that she caused a great snowstorm to come round the house ; and like the noise of troops and the rage of battle was the storm , beating and pouring in on every side , so that drifts of deep snow were piled against the walls , blocking the doors and chilling the folk that were feasting within the house . but the king was lying in a heavy , unresting sleep , and sheen was at his side . suddenly he screamed out of his sleep and stirred himself , for he heard the crash of falling timbers and the noise of the magic hosts , and he smelled the strong smell of fire in the palace . he sprang up . " it seems to me , " he cried , " that hosts of demons are around the house , and that they are slaughtering my people , and that the house of cletty is on fire . " " it was but a dream , " the witch maiden said . when the king saw that vision , he rose screaming from his sleep , and donned his arms ; and he made one plunge forward seeking for the magic hosts , but he found no man to answer him . the damsel went forth from the house , and murtough made to follow her , but as he turned the flames leaped out , and all between him and the door was one vast sheet of flame . he saw no way of escape , save the vat of wine that stood in the banqueting hall , and into that he got ; but the burning timbers of the roof fell upon his head and the hails of fiery sparks rained on him , so that half of him was burned and half was drowned , as he had seen in his dream . 