when the ambassador rode into the courtyard of this house , and , holding out the shoe , asked if there were any fair ladies there who would like to try it on , the elder sister , who always thought a great deal of herself , ran forward , and said that she would do so , while the younger girl just shook her head and went on with her work . " for , " said she to herself , " though my feet are so little that they might go into the slipper , what would i do as the wife of a great prince ? folk would just laugh at me , and say that i was not fit for the position . no , no , i am far better to bide as i am . " so the ambassador gave the glass shoe to the elder sister , who carried it away to her own room ; and presently , to every one 's astonishment , came back wearing it on her foot . it is true that her face was very white , and that she walked with a little limp ; but no one noticed these things except her younger sister , and she only shook her wise little head , and said nothing . alas ! alas ! pride must have a fall . for the cavalcade had not proceeded very far when a little bird which was perched on a branch of a bush by the roadside sang out : " nippit fit , and clippit fit , behind the king rides , but pretty fit , and little fit , ahint the caldron hides . " " what is this that the birdie says ? " cried the prince , who , if the truth be told , did not feel altogether satisfied with the bride whom fortune had bestowed upon him . " do you have another sister , madam ? " " only a little one , " murmured the lady , who liked ill the way in which things seemed to be falling out . " we will go back and find her , " said the prince firmly , " for when i sent out the slipper i had no mind that its wearer should nip her foot , and clip her foot , in order to get it on . " so the whole party turned back ; and when they reached the laird 's house the prince ordered a search to be made in the courtyard . and the bonnie little sister was soon discovered and brought out , all blushes and confusion , from her hiding - place behind the caldron . " give her the slipper , and let her try it on , " said the prince , and the eldest sister was forced to obey . and what was the horror of the bystanders , as she drew it off , to see that she had cut off the tops of her toes in order to get it on . but it fitted her little sister 's foot exactly , without either paring or clipping ; and when the prince saw that it was so , he lifted the elder sister down from his horse and lifted the little one up in her place , and carried her home to his palace , where the wedding was celebrated with great rejoicing ; and for the rest of their lives they were the happiest couple in the whole kingdom . 