but the spiritual part of notscha , his soul , fluttered about in the air , and was driven by the wind to the cave of the great one . he took it in and said to it : " you must appear to your mother ! forty miles distant from your home rises a green mountain cliff . on this cliff she must build a shrine for you . and after you have enjoyed the incense of human adoration for three years , you shall once more have a human body . " notscha appeared to his mother in a dream , and gave her the whole message , and she awoke in tears . but li dsing grew angry when she told him about it . " it serves the accursed boy right that he is dead ! it is because you are always thinking of him that he appears to you in dreams . you must pay no attention to him . " the woman said no more , but thenceforward he appeared to her daily , as soon as she closed her eyes , and grew more and more urgent in his demand . finally all that was left for her to do was to erect a temple for notscha without li dsing 's knowledge . and notscha performed great miracles in his temple . all prayers made in it were granted . and from far away people streamed to it to burn incense in his honor . thus half a year passed . then li dsing , on the occasion of a great military drill , once came by the cliff in question , and saw the people crowding thickly about the hill like a swarm of ants . li dsing inquired what there were to see upon the hill . " it is a new god , who performs so many miracles that people come from far and near to honor him . " " what sort of a god is he ? " asked li dsing . they did not dare conceal from him who the god was . then li dsing grew angry . he spurred his horse up the hill and , sure enough , over the door of the temple was written : " notscha 's shrine . " and within it was the likeness of notscha , just as he had appeared while living . li dsing said : " while you were alive you brought misfortune to your parents . now that you are dead you deceive the people . it is disgusting ! " with these words he drew forth his whip , beat notscha 's idolatrous likeness to pieces with it , had the temple burned down , and the worshipers mildly reproved . then he returned home . 