thus half a year passed . then li dsing , on the occasion of a great military drill , once came by the cliff in question , and saw the people crowding thickly about the hill like a swarm of ants . li dsing inquired what there were to see upon the hill . " it is a new god , who performs so many miracles that people come from far and near to honor him . " " what sort of a god is he ? " asked li dsing . they did not dare conceal from him who the god was . then li dsing grew angry . he spurred his horse up the hill and , sure enough , over the door of the temple was written : " notscha 's shrine . " and within it was the likeness of notscha , just as he had appeared while living . li dsing said : " while you were alive you brought misfortune to your parents . now that you are dead you deceive the people . it is disgusting ! " with these words he drew forth his whip , beat notscha 's idolatrous likeness to pieces with it , had the temple burned down , and the worshipers mildly reproved . then he returned home . now notscha had been absent in the spirit upon that day . when he returned he found his temple destroyed ; and the spirit of the hill gave him the details . notscha hurried to his master and related with tears what had befallen him . the latter was roused and said : " it is li dsing 's fault . after you had given back your body to your parents , you were no further concern of his . why should he withdraw from you the enjoyment of the incense ? " then the great one made a body of lotus - plants , gave it the gift of life , and enclosed the soul of notscha within it . this done he called out in a loud voice : " arise ! " a drawing of breath was heard , and notscha leaped up once more in the shape of a small boy . he flung himself down before his master and thanked him . the latter bestowed upon him the magic of the fiery lance , and notscha thenceforward had two whirling wheels beneath his feet : the wheel of the wind and the wheel of fire . with these he could rise up and down in the air . the master also gave him a bag of panther - skin in which to keep his armlet and his silken cloth . now notscha had determined to punish li dsing . taking advantage of a moment when he was not watched , he went away , thundering along on his rolling wheels to li dsing 's dwelling . the latter was unable to withstand him and fled . he was almost exhausted when his second son , mutscha , the disciple of the holy pu hain , came to his aid from the cave of the white crane . a violent quarrel took place between the brothers ; they began to fight , and mutscha was overcome ; while notscha once more rushed in pursuit of li dsing . at the height of his extremity , however , the holy wen dschu of the hill of the five dragons , the master of gintscha , li dsing 's oldest son , stepped forth and hid li dsing in his cave . notscha , in a rage , insisted that he be delivered up to him ; but wen dschu said : " elsewhere you may indulge your wild nature to your heart 's content , but not in this place . " 