osseo , with a sharp cry , fell trembling to the earth , where the others would have left him , but his good wife raised him up , and he sprang forward on the path , and with steps light as the reindeer he led the party , no longer decrepid and infirm , but a beautiful young man . on turning around to look for his wife , behold she had become changed , at the same moment , into an aged and feeble woman , bent almost double , and walking with the staff which he had cast aside . osseo immediately joined her , and with looks of fondness and the tenderest regard , bestowed on her every endearing attention , and constantly addressed her by the term of ne - ne - moosh - a , or my sweetheart . as they walked along , whenever they were not gazing fondly in each other 's face , they bent their looks on heaven , and a light , as if of far - off stars , was in their eyes . on arriving at the lodge of the hunter with whom they were to feast , they found the banquet ready , and as soon as their entertainer had finished his harangue -- in which he told them his feasting was in honor of the evening or woman 's star -- they began to partake of the portion dealt out , according to age and character , to each one of the guests . the food was very delicious , and they were all happy but osseo , who looked at his wife , and then gazed upward , as if he was looking into the substance of the sky . sounds were soon heard , as if from far - off voices in the air , and they became plainer and plainer , till he could clearly distinguish some of the words . " my son , my son , " said the voice ; " i have seen your afflictions , and pity your wants . i come to call you away from a scene that is stained with blood and tears . the earth is full of sorrows . wicked spirits , the enemies of mankind , walk abroad , and lie in wait to ensnare the children of the sky . every night they are lifting their voices to the power of evil , and every day they make themselves busy in casting mischief in the hunter 's path . 