long , long ago there lived a widow who had three sons . the two eldest were grown up , and though they were known to be idle fellows , some of the neighbours had given them work to do on account of the respect in which their mother was held . but at the time this story begins they had both been so careless and idle that their masters declared they would keep them no longer . so home they went to their mother and youngest brother , of whom they thought little , because he made himself useful about the house , and looked after the hens , and milked the cow . ' pinkel , ' they called him in scorn , and by - and - by ' pinkel ' became his name throughout the village . the way was further than they thought , and it was morning before they reached the palace . now , at last , their luck seemed to have turned , for while the two eldest were given places in the king 's stables , pinkel was taken as page to the little prince . he was a clever and amusing boy , who saw everything that passed under his eyes , and the king noticed this , and often employed him in his own service , which made his brothers very jealous . things went on this way for some time , and pinkel every day rose in the royal favour . at length the envy of his brothers became so great that they could bear it no longer , and consulted together how best they might ruin his credit with the king . they did not wish to kill him - though , perhaps , they would not have been sorry if they had heard he was dead - but merely wished to remind him that he was after all only a child , not half so old and wise as they . it may easily be guessed that all this made the brothers more envious than they were before ; and they cast about in their minds afresh how best they might destroy him . at length they remembered the goat with golden horns and the bells , and they rejoiced ; ' for , ' said they , ' this time the old woman will be on the watch , and let him be as clever as he likes , the bells on the horns are sure to warn her . ' so when , as before , the king came down to the stables and praised the cleverness of their brother , the young men told him of that other marvel possessed by the witch , the goat with the golden horns . from this moment the king never closed his eyes at night for longing after this wonderful creature . he understood something of the danger that there might be in trying to steal it , now that the witch 's suspicions were aroused , and he spent hours in making plans for outwitting her . but somehow he never could think of anything that would do , and at last , as the brothers had foreseen , he sent for pinkel . as soon as he had reached the middle of the lake , pinkel took the wool out of the bells , which began to tinkle loudly . their sound awoke the witch , who cried out as before : ' is that you , pinkel ? ' ' yes , dear mother , it is i , ' said pinkel . ' have you stolen my golden goat ? ' asked she . ' yes , dear mother , i have , ' answered pinkel . ' are you not a knave , pinkel ? ' ' yes , dear mother , i am , ' he replied . and the old witch shouted in a rage : ' ah ! beware how you come hither again , for next time you shall not escape me ! ' but pinkel laughed and rowed on . the king was so delighted with the goat that he always kept it by his side , night and day ; and , as he had promised , pinkel was made ruler over the third part of the kingdom . as may be supposed , the brothers were more furious than ever , and grew quite thin with rage . 