the king and queen had only one child , a prince who was still small ; yet great in promise . now when the king had gone , it chanced one day that the little fellow was wandering about the royal courtyard , and came to the wild man 's cage . and he began to play with an apple of gold he had . and while he was playing with it , it happened that suddenly the apple fell through the window in the wall of the cage . the wild man at once appeared and threw back the apple . this seemed a merry game to the little fellow : he threw the apple in again , and the wild man threw it out again , and thus they played for a long time . yet for all the game had been so pleasant , it turned to sorrow in the end : for the wild man kept the apple of gold , and would not give it back again . and when all was of no avail , neither threats nor prayers , the little fellow at last began to weep . then the wild man said : " your father did ill to capture me , and you will never get your apple of gold again , unless you let me out . " the little fellow answered : " and how can i let you out ? just you give me back my apple again , my apple of gold ! " then the wild man said : " you must do what i now tell you . go up to your mother , the queen , and beg her to comb your hair . then see to it that you take the key from her girdle , and come down and unlock the door . after that you can return the key in the same way , without any one knowing anything about it . " after the wild man had talked to the boy in this way , he finally did as he said , went up to his mother , begged her to comb his hair , and took the key from her girdle . then he ran down to the cage and opened the door . and when they parted , the dwarf said : " here is your apple of gold , that i promised to give back to you , and i thank you for setting me free . and another time when you have need of me , i will help you in turn . " and with that he ran off on his own way . but the prince went back to his mother , and returned the key in the same way he had taken it . 