poor jose was much troubled at these words . he thought that he had done all that was required of him , and that his life was safe . however , he bowed low , and went out to consult his friend the horse . ' do not vex yourself , ' said the horse , when he had heard the story ; ' jump up , and we will go and look for the things . ' and jose mounted at once . they rode on till they came to the ant - hill , and then the horse asked : ' would you like to have the bran ? ' ' what is the use of liking ? ' answered jose . ' well , call the ants , and tell them to fetch it for you ; and , if some of it has been scattered by the wind , to bring in its stead the grains that were in the cakes you gave them . ' jose listened in surprise . he did not much believe in the horse 's plan ; but he could not think of anything better , so he called to the ants , and bade them collect the bran as fast as they could . then he saw under a tree and waited , while his horse cropped the green turf . ' look there ! ' said the animal , suddenly raising its head ; and jose looked behind him and saw a little mountain of bran , which he put into a bag that was hung over his saddle . ' good deeds bear fruit sooner or later , ' observed the horse ; ' but mount again , as we have far to go . ' when they arrived at the tree , they saw the handkerchief fluttering like a flag from the topmost branch , and jose 's spirits sank again . ' how am i to get that handkerchief ? ' cried he ; ' why i should need jacob 's ladder ! ' but the horse answered : ' do not be frightened ; call to the eagle you set free from the net , he will bring it to you . ' so jose called to the eagle , and the eagle flew to the top of the tree and brought back the handkerchief in its beak . jose thanked him , and vaulting on his horse they rode on to the river . a great deal of rain had fallen in the night , and the river , instead of being clear as it was before , was dark and troubled . ' how am i to fetch the ring from the bottom of this river when i do not know exactly where it was dropped , and can not even see it ? ' asked jose . but the horse answered : ' do not be frightened ; call the little fish whose life you saved , and she will bring it to you . ' so he called to the fish , and the fish dived to the bottom and slipped behind big stones , and moved little ones with its tail till it found the ring , and brought it to jose in its mouth . well pleased with all he had done , jose returned to the palace ; but when the king took the precious objects to bella - flor , she declared that she would never open her door till the bandit who had carried her off had been fried in oil . ' i am very sorry , ' said the king to jose , ' i really would rather not ; but you see i have no choice . ' while the oil was being heated in the great caldron , jose went to the stables to inquire of his friend the horse if there was no way for him to escape . 