' what ! all alone , and without any means of existence ? ' cried the kind - hearted old fairy . ' you had better hand her over to me . i do n't think so very badly of her after all . i 'll just cure her vanity by making her love someone better than herself . really , when i come to consider of it , i declare the little minx has shown more spirit and originality in the matter than one expects of a princess . ' saradine willingly consented to this arrangement , and the old fairy 's first care was to smooth away all the difficulties which surrounded the princess , and lead her by the mossy path overhung with trees to the bower of the king and queen , who still pursued their peaceful life in the valley . they were immensely surprised at her appearance , but her charming face , and the deplorably ragged condition to which the thorns and briers had reduced her once elegant attire , speedily won their compassion ; they recognised her as a companion in misfortune , and the queen welcomed her heartily , and begged her to share their simple repast . celandine gracefully accepted their hospitality , and soon told them what had happened to her . the king was charmed with her spirit , while the queen thought she had indeed been daring thus to go against the fairy 's wishes . ' since it has ended in my meeting you , ' said the princess , ' i can not regret the step i have taken , and if you will let me stay with you , i shall be perfectly happy . ' the king and queen were only too delighted to have this charming princess to supply the place of prince featherhead , whom they saw but seldom , since the fairy had provided him with a palace in the neighbouring town , where he lived in the greatest luxury , and did nothing but amuse himself from morning to night . so celandine stayed , and helped the queen to keep house , and very soon they loved her dearly . when the fairy of the beech - woods came to them , they presented the princess to her , and told her story , little thinking that the fairy knew more about celandine than they did . the old fairy was equally delighted with her , and often invited her to visit her leafy palace , which was the most enchanting place that could be imagined , and full of treasures . often she would say to the princess , when showing her some wonderful thing : 