now the princess was indeed unhappy , and could no longer bear to stay in a place where she had been so cruelly disdained . so , without even bidding farewell to the king and queen , she left the valley behind her , and wandered sadly away , not caring whither . after walking until she was weary , she saw before her a tiny house , and turned her slow steps towards it . the nearer she approached the more miserable it appeared , and at length she saw a little old woman sitting upon the door - step , who said grimly : ' here comes one of these fine beggars who are too idle to do anything but run about the country ! ' ' alas ! madam , ' said celandine , with tears in her pretty eyes , ' a sad fate forces me to ask you for shelter . ' ' did n't i tell you what it would be ? ' growled the old hag . ' from shelter we shall proceed to demand supper , and from supper money to take us on our way . upon my word , if i could be sure of finding some one every day whose head was as soft as his heart , i would n't wish for a more agreeable life myself ! but i have worked hard to build my house and secure a morsel to eat , and i suppose you think that i am to give away everything to the first passer - by who chooses to ask for it . not at all ! i wager that a fine lady like you has more money than i have . i must search her , and see if it is not so , ' she added , hobbling towards celandine with the aid of her stick . ' alas ! madam , ' replied the princess , ' i only wish i had . i would give it to you with all the pleasure in life . ' ' but you are very smartly dressed for the kind of life you lead , ' continued the old woman . ' what ! ' cried the princess , ' do you think i am come to beg of you ? ' ' i do n't know about that , ' answered she ; ' but at any rate you do n't seem to have come to bring me anything . but what is it that you do want ? shelter ? well , that does not cost much ; but after that comes supper , and that i ca n't hear of . oh dear no ! why , at your age one is always ready to eat ; and now you have been walking , and i suppose you are ravenous ? ' ' indeed no , madam , ' answered the poor princess , ' i am too sad to be hungry . ' ' oh , well ! if you will promise to go on being sad , you may stay for the night , ' said the old woman mockingly . there upon she made the princess sit down beside her , and began fingering her silken robe , while she muttered ' lace on top , lace underneath ! this must have cost you a pretty penny ! it would have been better to save enough to feed yourself , and not come begging to those who want all they have for themselves . pray , what may you have paid for these fine clothes ? ' ' alas ! madam , ' answered the princess , ' i did not buy them , and i know nothing about money . ' ' what do you know , if i may ask ? ' said the old dame . ' not much ; but indeed i am very unhappy , ' cried celandine , bursting into tears , ' and if my services are any good to you-- ' ' services ! ' interrupted the hag crossly . ' one has to pay for services , and i am not above doing my own work . ' ' madam , i will serve you for nothing , ' said the poor princess , whose spirits were sinking lower and lower . ' i will do anything you please ; all i wish is to live quietly in this lonely spot . ' 