however , she did not even hint to the princess that featherhead was anything but absolutely perfect , and talked of him so much that when at last she announced that he was coming to visit her , celandine made up her mind that this delightful prince would be certain to fall in love with her at once , and was quite pleased at the idea . the old fairy thought so too , but as this was not at all what she wished , she took care to throw such an enchantment over the princess that she appeared to featherhead quite ugly and awkward , though to every one else she looked just as usual . so when he arrived at the leafy palace , more handsome and fascinating even than ever she had been led to expect , he hardly so much as glanced at the princess , but bestowed all his attention upon the old fairy , to whom he seemed to have a hundred things to say . the princess was immensely astonished at his indifference , and put on a cold and offended air , which , however , he did not seem to observe . then as a last resource she exerted all her wit and gaiety to amuse him , but with no better success , for he was of an age to be more attracted by beauty than by anything else , and though he responded politely enough , it was evident that his thoughts were elsewhere . celandine was deeply mortified , since for her part the prince pleased her very well , and for the first time she bitterly regretted the fairy gifts she had been anxious to get rid of . prince featherhead was almost equally puzzled , for he had heard nothing from the king and queen but the praises of this charming princess , and the fact that they had spoken of her as so very beautiful only confirmed his opinion that people who live in the country have no taste . he talked to them of his charming acquaintances in the town , the beauties he had admired , did admire , or thought he was going to admire , until celandine , who heard it all , was ready to cry with vexation . the fairy too was quite shocked at his conceit , and hit upon a plan for curing him of it . she sent to him by an unknown messenger a portrait of princess celandine as she really was , with this inscription : ' all this beauty and sweetness , with a loving heart and a great kingdom , might have been yours but for your well - known fickleness . ' 