when they learned at the king 's court that the wild man had broken out , there was great commotion , and the queen sent people over hill and dale to look for him . but he was gone and he stayed gone . thus matters went for a while and the queen grew more and more unhappy ; for she expected her husband to return every day . and when he did reach shore his first question was whether the wild man had been well guarded . then the queen had to confess how matters stood , and told him how everything had happened . but the king was enraged beyond measure , and said he would punish the malefactor , no matter who he might be . and he ordered a great investigation at his court , and every human being in it had to testify . but no one knew anything . at last the little prince also had to come forward . and as he stood before the king he said : " i know that i have deserved my father 's anger ; yet i can not hide the truth ; for i let out the wild man . " then the queen turned white , and the others as well , for there was not one who was not fond of the prince . at last the king spoke : " never shall it be said of me that i was false to my vow , even for the sake of my own flesh and blood ! no , you must die the death you have deserved . " and with that he gave the order to take the prince to the forest and kill him . and they were to bring back the boy 's heart as a sign that his command had been obeyed . now sorrow unheard of reigned among the people , and all pleaded for the little prince . but the king 's word could not be recalled . his serving - men did not dare disobey , took the boy in their midst , and set forth . and when they had gone a long way into the forest , they saw a swine - herd tending his pigs . then one said to another : " it does not seem right to me to lay hand on the king 's son ; let us buy a pig instead and take its heart , then all will believe it is the heart of the prince . " the other serving - men thought that he spoke wisely , so they bought a pig from the swine - herd , led it into the wood , butchered it and took its heart . then they told the prince to go his way and never return . they themselves went back to the king 's castle , and it is easy to imagine what grief they caused when they told of the prince 's death . 