they rode far without meeting any adventures , but at length they came to an ant - hill , and the horse stopped . ' crumble those three loaves for the ants , ' he said . but jose hesitated . ' why , we may want them ourselves ! ' answered he . ' never mind that ; give them to the ants all the same . do not lose a chance of helping others . ' and when the loaves lay in crumbs on the road , the horse galloped on . by - and - by they entered a rocky pass between two mountains , and here they saw an eagle which had been caught in a hunter 's net . ' get down and cut the meshes of the net , and set the poor bird free , ' said the horse . ' but it will take so long , ' objected jose , ' and we may miss the princess . ' ' never mind that ; do not lose a chance of helping others , ' answered the horse . and when the meshes were cut , and the eagle was free , the horse galloped on . the had ridden many miles , and at last they came to a river , where they beheld a little fish lying gasping on the sand , and the horse said : ' do you see that little fish ? it will die if you do not put it back in the water . ' ' but , really , we shall never find the princess bella - flor if we waste our time like this ! ' cried jose . ' we never waste time when we are helping others , ' answered the horse . and soon the little fish was swimming happily away . a little while after they reached a castle , which was built in the middle of a very thick wood , and right in front was the princess bella - flor feeding her hens . ' now listen , ' said the horse . ' i am going to give all sorts of little hops and skips , which will amuse the princess bella - flor . then she will tell you that she would like to ride a little way , and you must help her to mount . when she is seated i shall begin to neigh and kick , and you must say that i have never carried a woman before , and that you had better get up behind so as to be able to manage me . once on my back we will go like the wind to the king 's palace . ' poor jose was much troubled at these words . he thought that he had done all that was required of him , and that his life was safe . however , he bowed low , and went out to consult his friend the horse . ' do not vex yourself , ' said the horse , when he had heard the story ; ' jump up , and we will go and look for the things . ' and jose mounted at once . they rode on till they came to the ant - hill , and then the horse asked : ' would you like to have the bran ? ' ' what is the use of liking ? ' answered jose . ' well , call the ants , and tell them to fetch it for you ; and , if some of it has been scattered by the wind , to bring in its stead the grains that were in the cakes you gave them . ' jose listened in surprise . he did not much believe in the horse 's plan ; but he could not think of anything better , so he called to the ants , and bade them collect the bran as fast as they could . 