and when the day set by the king had arrived , the princess was led up the glass mountain . there she sat on its highest peak , with a golden crown on her head , and a golden apple in her hand , and she looked so immeasurably lovely that there was no one who would not have liked to risk his life for her . just below the foot of the hill all the suitors assembled with splendid horses and glittering armor , that shone like fire in the sun , and from round about the people flocked together in great crowds to watch their tilting . and when everything was ready , the signal was given by horns and trumpets , and then the suitors , one after another , raced up the mountain with all their might . but the mountain was high , as slippery as ice , and besides it was steep beyond all measure . not one of the suitors rode up more than a little way , before he tumbled down again , head over heels , and it might well happen that arms and legs were broken in the process . this made so great a noise , together with the neighing of the horses , the shouting of the people , and the clash of arms , that the tumult and the shouting could be heard far away . time passed , and the princess 's suitors decided to try their luck a second time . the king 's daughter was once more led up the glass mountain , with great pomp and richly gowned , and was seated on its topmost peak , with the golden crown on her head , and a golden apple in her hand . at the foot of the hill gathered all the suitors with handsome horses and splendid armor , and round about stood all the people to watch the contest . when all was ready the signal was given by horns and trumpets , and at the same moment the suitors , one after another , darted up the mountain with all their might . but all took place as at the first time . the mountain was high , and as slippery as ice , and besides , it was steep beyond all measure ; not one rode up more than a little way before tumbling down again head over heels . meanwhile there was much noise , and the horses neighed , and the people shouted , and the armor clashed , so that the tumult and the shouting sounded far into the deep wood . time passed , and the king set a day when his daughter 's suitors were to make a third trial . the princess was now once more led to the glass mountain , and seated herself on its highest peak , with the golden crown and the golden apple , as she had before . at the foot of the mountain gathered the whole swarm of suitors , with splendid horses and polished armor , handsome beyond anything seen thus far , and round about the people flocked together to watch the contest . when all was ready the suitors , one after another , darted up the mountain with all their might . the mountain was as smooth as ice , and besides , it was steep beyond all measure ; so that not one rode up more than a little way , before tumbling down again , head over heels . this made a great noise , the horses neighed , the people shouted , and the armor clashed , till the tumult and the shouting echoed far into the wood . 