celandine was deeply mortified , since for her part the prince pleased her very well , and for the first time she bitterly regretted the fairy gifts she had been anxious to get rid of . prince featherhead was almost equally puzzled , for he had heard nothing from the king and queen but the praises of this charming princess , and the fact that they had spoken of her as so very beautiful only confirmed his opinion that people who live in the country have no taste . he talked to them of his charming acquaintances in the town , the beauties he had admired , did admire , or thought he was going to admire , until celandine , who heard it all , was ready to cry with vexation . the fairy too was quite shocked at his conceit , and hit upon a plan for curing him of it . she sent to him by an unknown messenger a portrait of princess celandine as she really was , with this inscription : ' all this beauty and sweetness , with a loving heart and a great kingdom , might have been yours but for your well - known fickleness . ' meanwhile , the princess celandine had been finding the time pass but slowly with the king and queen , and was only too pleased when featherhead reappeared . she at once noticed the change in him , and was deeply curious to find the reason of it . far from avoiding her , he now sought her company and seemed to take pleasure in talking to her , and yet the princess did not for a moment flatter herself with the idea that he was in love with her , though it did not take her long to decide that he certainly loved someone . but one day the princess , wandering sadly by the river , spied prince featherhead fast asleep in the shade of a tree , and stole nearer to enjoy the delight of gazing at his dear face unobserved . judge of her astonishment when she saw that he was holding in his hand a portrait of herself ! in vain did she puzzle over the apparent contradictoriness of his behaviour . why did he cherish her portrait while he was so fatally indifferent to herself ? at last she found an opportunity of asking him the name of the princess whose picture he carried about with him always . ' alas ! how can i tell you ? ' replied he . 