now the princess was indeed unhappy , and could no longer bear to stay in a place where she had been so cruelly disdained . so , without even bidding farewell to the king and queen , she left the valley behind her , and wandered sadly away , not caring whither . after walking until she was weary , she saw before her a tiny house , and turned her slow steps towards it . the nearer she approached the more miserable it appeared , and at length she saw a little old woman sitting upon the door - step , who said grimly : ' here comes one of these fine beggars who are too idle to do anything but run about the country ! ' ' alas ! madam , ' said celandine , with tears in her pretty eyes , ' a sad fate forces me to ask you for shelter . ' ' what ! ' cried the princess , ' do you think i am come to beg of you ? ' ' i do n't know about that , ' answered she ; ' but at any rate you do n't seem to have come to bring me anything . but what is it that you do want ? shelter ? well , that does not cost much ; but after that comes supper , and that i ca n't hear of . oh dear no ! why , at your age one is always ready to eat ; and now you have been walking , and i suppose you are ravenous ? ' ' indeed no , madam , ' answered the poor princess , ' i am too sad to be hungry . ' ' oh , well ! if you will promise to go on being sad , you may stay for the night , ' said the old woman mockingly . there upon she made the princess sit down beside her , and began fingering her silken robe , while she muttered ' lace on top , lace underneath ! this must have cost you a pretty penny ! it would have been better to save enough to feed yourself , and not come begging to those who want all they have for themselves . pray , what may you have paid for these fine clothes ? ' ' alas ! madam , ' answered the princess , ' i did not buy them , and i know nothing about money . ' ' what do you know , if i may ask ? ' said the old dame . ' not much ; but indeed i am very unhappy , ' cried celandine , bursting into tears , ' and if my services are any good to you-- ' ' services ! ' interrupted the hag crossly . ' one has to pay for services , and i am not above doing my own work . ' ' madam , i will serve you for nothing , ' said the poor princess , whose spirits were sinking lower and lower . ' i will do anything you please ; all i wish is to live quietly in this lonely spot . ' ' oh ! i know you are only trying to take me in , ' answered she ; ' and if i do let you serve me , is it fitting that you should be so much better dressed i am ? if i keep you , will you give me your clothes and wear some that i will provide you with ? it is true that i am getting old and may want someone to take care of me some day . ' ' oh ! for pity 's sake , do what you please with my clothes , ' cried poor celandine miserably . and the old woman hobbled off with great alacrity , and fetched a little bundle containing a wretched dress , such as the princess had never even seen before , and nimbly skipped round , helping her to put it on instead of her own rich robe , with many exclamations of : ' saints!--what a magnificent lining ! and the width of it ! it will make me four dresses at least . why , child , i wonder you could walk under such a weight , and certainly in my house you would not have had room to turn round . ' so saying , she folded up the robe , and put it by with great care , while she remarked to celandine : ' that dress of mine certainly suits you to a marvel ; be sure you take great care of it . ' when supper - time came she went into the house , declining all the princess 's offers of assistance , and shortly afterwards brought out a very small dish , saying : ' now let us sup . ' 