" i hope not , " said the frog complacently . " arguments are extremely vulgar , for everybody in good society holds exactly the same opinions . good - bye a second time ; i see my daughters in the distance and the little frog swam away . " you are a very irritating person , " said the rocket , " and very ill - bred . i hate people who talk about themselves , as you do , when one wants to talk about oneself , as i do . it is what i call selfishness , and selfishness is a most detestable thing , especially to any one of my temperament , for i am well known for my sympathetic nature . in fact , you should take example by me ; you could not possibly have a better model . now that you have the chance you had better avail yourself of it , for i am going back to court almost immediately . i am a great favourite at court ; in fact , the prince and princess were married yesterday in my honour . of course you know nothing of these matters , for you are a provincial . " " there is no good talking to him , " said a dragon - fly , who was sitting on the top of a large brown bulrush ; " no good at all , for he has gone away . " " well , that is his loss , not mine , " answered the rocket . " i am not going to stop talking to him merely because he pays no attention . i like hearing myself talk . it is one of my greatest pleasures . i often have long conversations all by myself , and i am so clever that sometimes i do n't understand a single word of what i am saying . " " then you should certainly lecture on philosophy , " said the dragon - fly ; and he spread a pair of lovely gauze wings and soared away into the sky . " how very silly of him not to stay here ! " said the rocket . " i am sure that he has not often got such a chance of improving his mind . however , i do n't care a bit . genius like mine is sure to be appreciated some day " ; and he sank down a little deeper into the mud . after some time a large white duck swam up to him . she had yellow legs , and webbed feet , and was considered a great beauty on account of her waddle . " quack , quack , quack , " she said . " what a curious shape you are ! may i ask were you born like that , or is it the result of an accident ? " " it is quite evident that you have always lived in the country , " answered the rocket , " otherwise you would know who i am . however , i excuse your ignorance . it would be unfair to expect other people to be as remarkable as oneself . you will no doubt be surprised to hear that i can fly up into the sky , and come down in a shower of golden rain . " " i do n't think much of that , " said the duck , " as i can not see what use it is to any one . now , if you could plough the fields like the ox , or draw a cart like the horse , or look after the sheep like the collie - dog , that would be something . " " my good creature , " cried the rocket in a very haughty tone of voice , " i see that you belong to the lower orders . a person of my position is never useful . we have certain accomplishments , and that is more than sufficient . i have no sympathy myself with industry of any kind , least of all with such industries as you seem to recommend . indeed , i have always been of opinion that hard work is simply the refuge of people who have nothing whatever to do . " " well , well , " said the duck , who was of a very peaceable disposition , and never quarrelled with any one , " everybody has different tastes . i hope , at any rate , that you are going to take up your residence here . " " ah ! the higher things of life , how fine they are ! " said the duck ; " and that reminds me how hungry i feel " : and she swam away down the stream , saying , " quack , quack , quack . " " come back ! come back ! " screamed the rocket , " i have a great deal to say to you " ; but the duck paid no attention to him . " i am glad that she has gone , " he said to himself , " she has a decidedly middle - class mind " ; and he sank a little deeper still into the mud , and began to think about the loneliness of genius , when suddenly two little boys in white smocks came running down the bank , with a kettle and some sticks . " this must be the deputation , " said the rocket , and he tried to look very dignified . 