she began to make excuses , and said she could not find the way to it ; but the bridegroom said , " you must come and pay me a visit next sunday ; i have already invited company , and i will strew ashes on the path through the wood , so that you will be sure to find it . " when sunday came , and the girl set out on her way , she felt very uneasy without knowing exactly why ; and she filled both pockets full of peas and lentils . there were ashes strewed on the path through the wood , but , nevertheless , at each step she cast to the right and left a few peas on the ground . so she went on the whole day until she came to the middle of the wood , where it was the darkest , and there stood a lonely house , not pleasant in her eyes , for it was dismal and unhomelike . she walked in , but there was no one there , and the greatest stillness reigned . suddenly she heard a voice cry , " turn back , turn back , thou pretty bride , within this house thou must not bide , for here do evil things betide . " the girl glanced round , and perceived that the voice came from a bird who was hanging in a cage by the wall . and again it cried , " turn back , turn back , thou pretty bride , within this house thou must not bide , for here do evil things betide . " then the pretty bride went on from one room into another through the whole house , but it was quite empty , and no soul to be found in it . at last she reached the cellar , and there sat a very old woman nodding her head . " can you tell me , " said the bride , " if my bridegroom lives here ? " " oh , poor child , " answered the old woman , " do you know what has happened to you ? you are in a place of cut - throats . you thought you were a bride , and soon to be married , but death will be your spouse . look here , i have a great kettle of water to set on , and when once they have you in their power they will cut you in pieces without mercy , cook you , and eat you , for they are cannibals . unless i have pity on you , and save you , all is over with you ! " 