the young woman smiled . owasso was a comely youth to look upon . the magician told him to take his seat near her . by this act the marriage ceremony was completed , and owasso and the magician 's daughter were man and wife . in the course of time they had born to them a son . but no sooner was owasso in the family than the old manito wished him out of the way . he went about in his own wicked fashion to compass it . one day he asked his son - in - law to go out a - fishing with him . they started without delay . the magician had only to speak , and off went the canoe . they reached a solitary bay in an island , a very dark , lonely , and out - of - the - way place . the manito advised owasso to spear a large sturgeon which came alongside , and with its great glassy eye turned up , seemed to recognize the magician . owasso rose in the boat to dart his spear , and by speaking that moment to his canoe , mishosha shot forward and hurled his son - in - law headlong into the water . leaving him to struggle for himself , he was soon out of sight . owasso , being himself gifted with limited magical powers , spoke to the fish , and bade him swim toward the lodge , while he carried him along , which he did at great speed . once he directed the sturgeon to rise near the surface of the water , so that he might , if possible , get a view of the magician . the fish obeyed , and owasso saw the wicked old manito busy in another direction , fishing , as unconcerned as though he had not just lost a member of his family . on went the fish , and on went owasso , till they reached the shore , near the magician 's lodge , in advance of him . he then spoke kindly to the sturgeon , and told him he should not be angry with him for having speared him , as he was created to be meat for man . the sturgeon made no reply , or if he did , it has not been reported . owasso , drawing him on shore , went up and told his wife to dress and cook it immediately . by the time it was prepared the magician had come in sight . " your grandfather has arrived , " said the woman to her son . " go and see what he brings , and eat this as you go"--handing a piece of the fish . the boy went , and the magician no sooner saw him with the fish in his hand , than he asked him , " what are you eating ? and who brought it ? " 