the tree , at this bidding , rose up so far that owasso would have imperiled his neck by any attempt to get to the ground . " listen , ye eagles ! " continued mishosha . " you have long expected a gift from me . i now present you this boy , who has had the presumption to climb up where you are to molest your young . stretch forth your claws and seize him . " so saying , the old magician , according to his custom in such cases , turned his back upon owasso . going off in his canoe at a word , he left his son - in - law to shift for himself . but the birds did not seem to be so badly - minded as the old magician had supposed . a very old bald eagle , quite corpulent and large of limb , alighting on a branch just opposite , opened conversation with him by asking what had brought him there . owasso replied that he had not mounted the tree of himself , or out of any disposition to harm his people . his father - in - law , the old magician who had just left them , had sent him up . he was constantly sending him on mischievous errands . in a word , the young man was enlarging at great length upon the character of the wicked manito . he was interrupted by being darted upon by a hungry - eyed bird , with long claws . owasso , not in the least disconcerted , boldly seized this fierce eagle by the neck and dashed it against the rocks , crying out : " thus will i deal with all who come near me . " the old eagle , who appeared to be the head of the tribe , was so pleased with this show of spirit that he immediately appointed two tall birds , uncommonly strong in the wings , to transport owasso to his lodge . they were to take turns in conducting him through the air . owasso expressed many obligations to the old eagle for his kindness , and they forthwith set out . it was a high point from which they started , for the pine - tree had shot far , far up toward the clouds , and they could even descry the enchanted island where the old magician lived , though it was miles and miles away . for this point they steered their flight . in a short time they landed owasso at the door of the lodge . with many compliments for their dispatch , owasso dismissed the birds , and stood ready to greet his wicked father - in - law who now arrived . when he espied his son - in - law still unharmed , mishosha grew very black in the face . he had but a single charm left . 