he cast his eyes upon his wife , and continued : " for you , my partner in life , i have less sorrow , because i am persuaded you will not remain long behind me . but you , my children ! my poor and forsaken children , who have just begun the career of life , who will shelter you from calamity ? listen to my words . unkindness , ingratitude , and every wickedness , are in the scene before you . it was for this that years ago i withdrew from my kindred and my tribe to spend my days in this lonely spot . i have contented myself with the company of your mother and yourselves , during seasons of very frequent scarcity and want . your kindred , feasting in plenty , have caused the forests to echo with the shouts of successful war . i gave up these things for the enjoyment of peace . i wished to hide you away from the bad examples which would have spoiled your innocence . i have seen you , thus far , grow up in purity of heart . if we have sometimes suffered bodily want , we have escaped pain of mind . we have not been compelled to look on or to take a part with the red hand in scenes of rioting and bloodshed . my path now stops . i have arrived at the brink of the world . i will shut my eyes in peace if you , my children , will promise me to cherish each other . let not your mother suffer during the few days that are left to her . i charge you , on no account , to forsake your younger brother . of him i give you both my dying command to have a tender care . " it happened on the same day , that his elder brother , owasso , was fishing in his magic canoe , a considerable distance out upon the lake . he thought he heard the cries of a child upon the shore . he wondered how any human creature could exist on so bleak and barren a coast . he listened again with all attention , and he heard the cry distinctly repeated . this time it was the well - known cry of his younger brother that reached his ear . he knew too well the secret of his song , as he heard him chaunting mournfully : " my brother ! my brother ! since you left me going in the canoe , a - hee - ee , i am half changed into a wolf , e - wee . i am half changed into a wolf , e - wee . " owasso made for the shore , and as he approached the lament was repeated . the sounds were very distinct , and the voice of wailing was very sorrowful for owasso to listen to . it touched him the more that it died away at the close , into a long - drawn howl , like that of the wolf . 