suddenly the sea - troll rose from the deeps , setting the waves whirling and foaming far and near . when the troll saw silverwhite , he grew angry and said : " why do you sit there beside my princess ? " the youth replied : " it seems to me that she is my princess , not yours . " the sea - troll answered : " time enough to see which of us is right ; but first our dogs shall fight . " silverwhite was nothing loath , and set his dogs at the dogs of the troll . there was a fierce struggle . but at last the youth 's dogs got the upper hand and bit the dogs of the sea - troll to death . then silverwhite drew his sword with a great sweep , rushed upon the sea - troll , and gave him such a tremendous blow that the monster 's head rolled on the sand . the troll gave a fearsome cry , and flung himself back into the sea , so that the water spurted to the very skies . thereupon the youth drew out his silver - mounted knife , cut out the troll 's eyes and put them in his pocket . then he saluted the lovely princess and went away . on the following day everything repeated itself . silverwhite went down to the strand and met the second princess , just as she was to be delivered to the troll . and when the king 's daughter and her escort saw him , they were very much frightened , thinking he was the sea - troll . and the courtier climbed a tree , just as he had before . the princess granted the youth 's petition , combed his hair as her sister had done , and also wound her gold ring into his long curls . after a time there was a great tumult out at sea , and a sea - troll rose from the waves . he had three heads and three dogs . but silverwhite 's dogs overcame those of the troll , and the youth killed the troll himself with his sword . thereupon he took out his silver - mounted knife , cut out the troll 's eyes , and went his way . but the courtier lost no time . he climbed down from his tree and forced the princess to promise to say that he , and none other , had rescued her . then they returned to the castle , where the courtier was acclaimed as the greatest of heroes . 