but when the troll noticed he was getting the worst of it , he grew frightened , quickly ran to a high tree , and clambered into it . silverwhite and the dogs ran after him , the dogs barking as loudly as they could . then the troll begged for his life and said : " dear silverwhite , i will take wergild for my brothers , only bid your dogs be still , so that we may talk . " the king bade his dogs be still , but in vain , they only barked the more loudly . then the troll tore three hairs from his head , handed them to silverwhite and said : " lay a hair on each of the dogs , and then they will be as quiet as can be . " the king did so and at once the dogs fell silent , and lay motionless as though they had grown fast to the ground . now silverwhite realized that he had been deceived ; but it was too late . the troll was already descending from the tree , and he drew his sword and again began to fight . but they had exchanged no more than a few blows , before silverwhite received a mortal wound , and lay on the earth in a pool of blood . in the night , when all were sleeping , there was a knocking at the window , and a voice cried : " come , lillwacker , i have to talk to you ! " the youth rose hastily , took his good sword , called his dogs and went . when he reached the open air , there stood the same troll who had slain silverwhite . he said : " come with me , lillwacker , and then you shall see your foster - brother ! " to this lillwacker at once agreed , and the troll led the way . when they came to the sea - shore , there lay the three great dogs whom the troll had brought with him . somewhat further away , where they had fought , lay silverwhite in a pool of blood , and beside him his dogs were stretched out on the ground as though they had taken root in it . then lillwacker saw how everything had happened , and thought that he would gladly venture his life , if he might in some way call his brother back from the dead . he at once set his dogs at the troll - dogs , and they had a hard struggle , in which lillwacker 's dogs won the victory . then the youth drew his sword , and attacked the troll with mighty blows . but when the troll saw that he was getting the worst of it , he took refuge in a lofty tree . lillwacker and his dogs ran after him and the dogs barked loudly . 