when the troll saw that his attempt had failed , he was much alarmed and said : " dearest lillwacker , i will give you wergild for your brother , if you will only leave me alone . " but the youth answered : " what is there you can give me that will compensate for my brother 's life ? " the troll replied : " here are two flasks . in one is a liquid which , if you anoint a dead man with it , it will restore him to life . as to the liquid in the other flask , if you moisten anything with it , and some one touches the place you have moistened , he will be unable to move from the spot . i think it would be hard to find anything more precious than the liquid in these flasks . " lillwacker said : " your proposal suits me , and i will accept it . but there is something else you must promise to do : that you will release my brother 's dogs . " the troll agreed , climbed down from the tree , breathed on the dogs and thus freed them . then lillwacker took the two flasks and went away from the sea - shore with the troll . after they had gone a while they came to a great flat stone , lying near the highway . lillwacker hastened on in advance and moistened it with liquid from the second flask . then , as he was going by , lillwacker suddenly set all six of his dogs at the troll , who stepped back and touched the stone . there he stuck , and could move neither forward nor backward . after a time the sun rose and shone on the stone . and when the troll saw the sun he burst -- and was as dead as a doornail ! lillwacker now ran back to his brother and sprinkled him with the liquid in the other flask , so that he came to life again , and they were both very happy , as may well be imagined . the two foster - brothers then returned to the castle , recounting the story of their experiences and adventures on the way . lillwacker told how he had been taken for his brother . he even mentioned that he had lain down on a couch in a corner of the queen 's room , and that she had never suspected that he was not her rightful husband . but when silverwhite heard that , he thought that lillwacker had offended against the queen 's dignity , and he grew angry and fell into such a rage that he drew his sword , and thrust it into his brother 's breast . lillwacker fell to earth dead , and silverwhite went home to the castle alone . but lillwacker 's dogs would not leave their master , and lay around him , whining and licking his wound . 