" does a stove look beautiful ? " asked the snow man , " is it at all like me ? " " it is just the reverse of you , " said the dog ; " it 's as black as a crow , and has a long neck and a brass knob . it eats firewood , so that fire spurts out of its mouth . we should keep on one side , or under it , to be comfortable . you can see it through the window , from where you stand . " then the snow man looked , and saw a bright polished thing with a brazen knob , and fire gleaming from the lower part of it . the snow man felt quite a strange sensation come over him . it was very odd , he knew not what it meant , and he could not account for it . but there are people who are not men of snow , who understand what it is . " and why did you leave her ? " asked the snow man , for it seemed to him that the stove must be of the female sex . " how could you give up such a comfortable place ? " " i was obliged , " replied the yard - dog . " they turned me out of doors , and chained me up here . i had bitten the youngest of my master 's sons in the leg , because he kicked away the bone i was gnawing . ' bone for bone , ' i thought . but they were so angry , and from that time i have been fastened with a chain , and lost my bone . do n't you hear how hoarse i am . away , away ! i ca n't talk any more like other dogs . away , away , that is the end of it all . " but the snow man was no longer listening . he was looking into the housekeeper 's room on the lower storey . where the stove stood on its four iron legs , looking about the same size as the snow man himself . " what a strange crackling i feel within me , " he said . " shall i ever get in there ? it is an innocent wish , and innocent wishes are sure to be fulfilled . i must go in there and lean against her , even if i have to break the window . " " you must never go in there , " said the yard - dog , " for if you approach the stove , you 'll melt away , away . " " i might as well go , " said the snow man , " for i think i am breaking up as it is . " 