the cabin - boy had been traveling around all summer long with his captain ; but when they began to prepare to set sail in the fall , he grew restless and did not want to go along . the captain liked him , for though he was no more than a boy , he was quite at home on deck , was a big , tall lad , and did not mind lending a hand when need arose ; then , too , he did as much work as an able seaman , and was so full of fun that he kept the whole crew in good humor . and so the captain did not like to lose him . but the youth said out and out that he was not minded to take to the blue pond in the fall ; though he was willing to stay on board till the ship was loaded and ready to sail . one sunday , while the crew was ashore , and the captain had gone to a farm - holding near the forest , in order to bargain for small timber and log wood -- presumably on his own account -- for a deck load , the youth had been left to guard the ship . but you must know that he was a sunday child , and had found a four - leaf clover ; and that was the reason he had the second sight . he could see those who are invisible , but they could not see him . " but is it certain that there is no one here who can overhear us ? " said one of the crows . and by the way she spoke the cabin - boy knew her for the captain 's wife . " no , you can see there 's not , " said the others , the wives of the first and second quartermasters . " there is not a soul aboard . " " well , then i do not mind saying that i know of a good way to get rid of them , " said the captain 's wife once more , and hopped closer to the two others . " we will turn ourselves into breakers , wash them into the sea , and sink the ship with every man on board . " that pleased the others , and they sat there a long time discussing the day and the fairway . " but is it certain that no one can overhear us ? " once more asked the captain 's wife . " you know that such is the case , " said the two others . " well , there is a counter - spell for what we wish to do , and if it is used , it will go hard with us , for it will cost us nothing less than our lives ! " " what is the counter - spell , sister , " asked the wife of the one quartermaster . " is it certain that no one is listening to us ? it seemed to me as though some one were smoking in the forward cabin . " " but you know we looked in every corner . they just forgot to let the fire go out in the caboose , and that is why there 's smoke , " said the quartermaster 's wife , " so tell away . " " if they buy three cords of birch - wood , " said the witch,--"but it must be full measure , and they must not bargain for it -- and throw the first cord into the water , billet by billet , when the first breaker strikes , and the second cord , billet by billet , when the second breaker strikes , and the third cord , billet by billet , when the third breaker strikes , then it is all up with us ! " " yes , that 's true , sister , then it is all up with us ! then it is all up with us ! " said the wives of the quartermasters ; " but there is no one who knows it , " they cried , and laughed loudly , and with that they flew out of the hatchway , screaming and croaking like ravens . 