he at once made ready to start , and great was the stir in the precincts of the palace as he and his trusty followers gathered together and prepared for the expedition , and polished up their armor and donned it . before he left his father 's court he went to pray at the shrine of ise and to take leave of his aunt the princess yamato , for his heart was somewhat heavy at the thought of the dangers he had to face , and he felt that he needed the protection of his ancestress , amaterasu , the sun goddess . the princess his aunt came out to give him glad welcome , and congratulated him on being trusted with so great a mission by his father the king . she then gave him one of her gorgeous robes as a keepsake to go with him and to bring him good luck , saying that it would surely be of service to him on this adventure . she then wished him all success in his undertaking and bade him good speed . the young prince bowed low before his aunt , and received her gracious gift with much pleasure and many respectful bows . " i will now set out , " said the prince , and returning to the palace he put himself at the head of his troops . thus cheered by his aunt 's blessing , he felt ready for all that might befall , and marching through the land he went down to the southern island of kiushiu , the home of the brigands . before many days had passed he reached the southern island , and then slowly but surely made his way to the head - quarters of the chiefs kumaso and takeru . he now met with great difficulties , for he found the country exceedingly wild and rough . the mountains were high and steep , the valleys dark and deep , and huge trees and bowlders of rock blocked up the road and stopped the progress of his army . it was all but impossible to go on . though the prince was but a youth he had the wisdom of years , and , seeing that it was vain to try and lead his men further , he said to himself : " to attempt to fight a battle in this impassable country unknown to my men only makes my task harder . we can not clear the roads and fight as well . it is wiser for me to resort to stratagem and come upon my enemies unawares . in that way i may be able to kill them without much exertion . " 