there was only one person who was not pleased at hase - hime 's success . that one was her stepmother . forever brooding over the death of her own child whom she had killed when trying to poison her step - daughter , she had the mortification of seeing her rise to power and honor , marked by imperial favor and the admiration of the whole court . her envy and jealousy burned in her heart like fire . many were the lies she carried to her husband about hase - hime , but all to no purpose . he would listen to none of her tales , telling her sharply that she was quite mistaken . at last the step - mother , seizing the opportunity of her husband 's absence , ordered one of her old servants to take the innocent girl to the hibari mountains , the wildest part of the country , and to kill her there . she invented a dreadful story about the little princess , saying that this was the only way to prevent disgrace falling upon the family - by killing her . katoda , her vassal , was bound to obey his mistress . anyhow , he saw that it would be the wisest plan to pretend obedience in the absence of the girl 's father . he placed hase - hime in a palanquin and accompanied her to the most solitary place he could find in the wild district . the poor child knew there was no good in protesting to her unkind step - mother at being sent away in this strange manner , so she went as she was told . but the old servant knew that the young princess was quite innocent of all the things her step - mother had invented to him as reasons for her outrageous orders , and he determined to save her life . unless he killed her , however , he could not return to his cruel task - mistress , so he decided to stay out in the wilderness . with the help of some peasants he soon built a little cottage , and having sent secretly for his wife to come , these two good old people did all in their power to take care of the now unfortunate princess . she all the time trusted in her father , knowing that as soon as he returned home and found her absent , he would search for her . 