so the prince toyonari and his wife went to the temple of kwannon at hase and stayed there for a long time , both daily offering incense and praying to kwannon , the heavenly mother , to grant them the desire of their whole lives . and their prayer was answered . a daughter was born at last to the princess murasaki , and great was the joy of her heart . on presenting the child to her husband , they both decided to call her hase - hime , or the princess of hase , because she was the gift of the kwannon at that place . they both reared her with great care and tenderness , and the child grew in strength and beauty . but hase - hime bore every unkindness with patience . she even waited upon her step - mother kindly and obeyed her in every way and never gave any trouble , just as she had been trained by her own good mother , so that the lady terute had no cause for complaint against her . the little princess was very diligent , and her favorite studies were music and poetry . she would spend several hours practicing every day , and her father had the most proficient of masters he could find to teach her the koto ( japanese harp ) , the art of writing letters and verse . when she was twelve years of age she could play so beautifully that she and her step - mother were summoned to the palace to perform before the emperor . taken by surprise , she could hardly realize that it was her own dear father who was calling her , and for a moment she was utterly bereft of the power to speak or move . " my father , my father ! it is indeed you - oh , my father ! " was all she could say , and running to him she caught hold of his thick sleeve , and burying her face burst into a passion of tears . her father stroked her dark hair , asking her gently to tell him all that had happened , but she only wept on , and he wondered if he were not really dreaming . then the faithful old servant katoda came out , and bowing himself to the ground before his master . he poured out the long tale of wrong , telling him all that had happened , and how it was that he found his daughter in such a wild and desolate spot with only two old servants to take care of her . the prince 's astonishment and indignation knew no bounds . he gave up the hunt at once and hurried home with his daughter . one of the company galloped ahead to inform the household of the glad news , and the step - mother hearing what had happened , and fearful of meeting her husband now that her wickedness was discovered , fled from the house and returned in disgrace to her father 's roof , and nothing more was heard of her . 