where he now stood it was beautiful day . the heavens were clear , and the sun shone out as brightly to strong desire as on the first morning when he had put forth his little head from the door of his father 's lodge . he had not been long there , sauntering along the beach , when he displayed the glittering bowl by dipping water from the lake . very soon a number of canoes came off from the island . the men admired his dress , and were charmed with his beauty , and almost with one voice they all made proposals of marriage . these , strong desire promptly declined . when this was reported to red head , he ordered his royal bark to be launched by his chosen men of the oar , and crossed over to see this wonderful girl . as they approached the shore , strong desire saw that the ribs of the sorcerer 's canoe were formed of living rattlesnakes , whose heads pointed outward to guard him from his enemies . being invited , he had no sooner stepped into the canoe , than they began to hiss and rattle furiously , which put him in a great fright ; but the magician spoke to them , when they became pacified and quiet . shortly after they were at the landing upon the island . the marriage took place immediately ; and the bride made presents of various valuables which had been furnished her by the old witch who inhabited the cloudy lodge . as they were sitting in the lodge , surrounded by the friends and relatives , the mother of the red head regarded the face of her new daughter - in - law for a long time with fixed attention . from this scrutiny she was convinced that this singular and hasty marriage boded no good to her son . she drew him aside , and disclosed to him her suspicions . this can be no female , said she ; she has the figure and manners , the countenance , and more especially the eyes , are beyond a doubt those of a man . her husband rejected her suspicions , and rebuked her severely for entertaining such notions of her own daughter - in - law . she still urged her doubts , which so vexed the husband that he broke his pipe - stem in her face , and called her an owl . this act astonished the company , who sought an explanation ; and it was no sooner given , than the mock bride , rising with an air of offended dignity , informed the red head that after receiving so gross an affront from his relatives she could not think of remaining with him as his wife , but should forthwith return to her own friends . 