she gave him , too , a bowl of shining metal . she directed him to put in his girdle a blade of scented sword - grass , and to proceed the next morning to the banks of the lake , which was no other than that over which the red head reigned . now hah - undo - tah , or the red head , was a most powerful sorcerer , living upon an island in the centre of his realm of water , and he was the terror of all the country . she informed him that there would be many indians upon the island , who , as soon as they saw him use the shining bowl to drink with , would come and solicit him to be their wife , and to take him over to the island . these offers he was to refuse , and to say that he had come a great distance to be the wife of the red head , and that if the chief could not seek her for himself , she would return to her village . she said , that as soon as the red head heard of this he would come for her in his own canoe , in which she must embark . where he now stood it was beautiful day . the heavens were clear , and the sun shone out as brightly to strong desire as on the first morning when he had put forth his little head from the door of his father 's lodge . he had not been long there , sauntering along the beach , when he displayed the glittering bowl by dipping water from the lake . very soon a number of canoes came off from the island . the men admired his dress , and were charmed with his beauty , and almost with one voice they all made proposals of marriage . these , strong desire promptly declined . when this was reported to red head , he ordered his royal bark to be launched by his chosen men of the oar , and crossed over to see this wonderful girl . as they approached the shore , strong desire saw that the ribs of the sorcerer 's canoe were formed of living rattlesnakes , whose heads pointed outward to guard him from his enemies . being invited , he had no sooner stepped into the canoe , than they began to hiss and rattle furiously , which put him in a great fright ; but the magician spoke to them , when they became pacified and quiet . shortly after they were at the landing upon the island . the marriage took place immediately ; and the bride made presents of various valuables which had been furnished her by the old witch who inhabited the cloudy lodge . 