but earl st . clair forgot that he carried a talisman which his companion lacked , that enabled him to see things as they really were , while the other 's eyes were holden , and he was startled and amazed when earl gregory said sharply , " thy mind hath gone mad over this elfin king . i tell thee he who passed was a goodly knight , clad in a green vesture , and riding on a great black jennet . and because i love a gallant horseman , and would fain learn his name and degree , i will follow him till i find him , even if it be at the world 's end . " and without another word he put spurs to his horse and galloped off in the direction which the mysterious stranger had taken , leaving earl st . clair alone upon the moorland , his fingers touching the sacred sign and his trembling lips muttering prayers for protection . for he knew that his friend had been bewitched , and he made up his mind , brave gentleman that he was , that he would follow him to the world 's end , if need be , and try to deliver him from the spell that had been cast over him . meanwhile earl gregory rode on and on , ever following in the wake of the knight in green , over moor , and burn , and moss , till he came to the most desolate region that he had ever been in in his life ; where the wind blew cold , as if from snow - fields , and where the hoar - frost lay thick and white on the withered grass at his feet . and there , in front of him , was a sight from which mortal man might well shrink back in awe and dread . for he saw an enormous ring marked out on the ground , inside of which the grass , instead of being withered and frozen , was lush , and rank , and green , where hundreds of shadowy elfin figures were dancing , clad in loose transparent robes of dull blue , which seemed to curl and twist round their wearers like snaky wreaths of smoke . these weird goblins were shouting and singing as they danced , and waving their arms above their heads , and throwing themselves about on the ground , for all the world as if they had gone mad ; and when they saw earl gregory halt on his horse just outside the ring they beckoned to him with their skinny fingers . 