they were real wampum , white and blue , shining and beautiful ; and the young man , placing them in his bosom , set off ; but as he did not seem quite steady in his belief of the strange woman 's story , the dog spirit - iron , taking his arm , kept close by his side , and gave him many words of encouragement as they went along . they entered the lodge together ; and the old toad - woman saw , from something in the dog 's eye , that trouble was coming . " mother , " said the young man , placing his hand to his head , and leaning heavily upon spirit - iron , as if a sudden faintness had come upon him , " why am i so different in looks from the rest of your children ? " " oh , " she answered , " it was a very bright , clear blue sky when you were born ; that is the reason . " he seemed to be so very ill that the toad - woman at length asked what she could do for him . he said nothing could do him good but the sight of his cradle . she ran immediately and brought a cedar cradle ; but he said : " that is not my cradle . " she went and got another of her own children 's cradles , of which there were four ; but he turned his head , and said : " that is not mine ; i am as sick as ever . " when she had shown the four , and they had been all rejected , she at last produced the real cradle . the young man saw that it was of the same stuff as the wampum which he had in his bosom . he could even see the marks of the teeth of spirit - iron left upon the edges , where he had taken hold , striving to hold it back . he had no doubt , now , which was his mother . to get free of the old toad - woman , it was necessary that the young man should kill a fat bear ; and , being directed by spirit - iron , who was very wise in such a matter , he secured the fattest in all that country ; and having stripped a tall pine of all its bark and branches , he perched the carcass in the top , with its head to the east and its tail due west . returning to the lodge , he informed the old toad - woman that the fat bear was ready for her , but that she would have to go very far , even to the end of the earth , to get it . she answered : " it is not so far but that i can get it ; " for of all things in the world , a fat bear was the delight of the old toad - woman . 