he was bent on success in pursuit of the swan , whose red track he marked well far westward till she was lost to sight . meanwhile he would tarry for the night and procure something to eat , as he had fasted since he had left home . at a distance , on a rising ground , he could see the lodges of a large village . he went toward it , and soon heard the watchman , who was set on a height to overlook the place , and give notice of the approach of friends or foes , crying out , " we are visited ; " and a loud halloo indicated that they had all heard it . when maidwa advanced , the watchman pointed to the lodge of the chief . " it is there you must go in , " he said , and left him . " come in , come in , " said the chief ; " take a seat there ; " pointing to the side of the lodge where his daughter sat . " it is there you must sit . " they gave him something to eat , and , being a stranger , very few questions were put to him . it was only when he spoke that the others answered him . " daughter , " said the chief , as soon as the night had set in , " take our son - in - law 's moccasins and see if they be torn . if so , mend them for him , and bring in his bundle . " maidwa thought it strange that he should be so warmly received , and married instantly against his own wishes , although he could not help noticing that the chief 's daughter was pretty . it was some time before she would take the moccasins which he had laid off . it displeased him to see her reluctant to do so . when at last she did reach them , he snatched them from her hand and hung them up himself . he lay down and thought of the swan , and made up his mind to be off with the dawn . he wakened early , and finding the chief 's daughter looking forth at the door , he spoke to her , but she gave no answer . he touched her lightly . " what do you want ? " she said , and turned her face away from him . " tell me , " said maidwa , " what time the swan passed . i am following it ; come out , and point the way . " " do you think you can overtake it ? " she said . " yes , " he answered . " naubesah -- fool ! " retorted the chief 's pretty daughter . she , however , went out , and pointed in the direction he should go . the young man paced slowly along till the sun arose , when he commenced traveling at his accustomed speed . he passed the day in running , and although he could not see anywhere on the horizon the red swan , he thought that he discerned a faint red light far over in the west . 