the winter was nearly passed away , when , one evening , the hunter was abroad later than usual . the moment he came in and laid down his day 's hunt , as was his custom , before his wife , the two females seized upon the deer and began to tear off the fat in so unceremonious a way that her anger was excited . she constrained herself , however , in a good degree , but she could not conceal her feelings , though she said but little . the strange guests observed the state of her mind , and they became uneasy , and withdrew further still into the remote gloom of the lodge . the good hunter saw the eclipse that was darkening the quiet of his lodge , and carefully inquired of its cause ; but his wife denied having used any words of complaining or reproach . they retired to their couches , and the hunter tried to compose himself to sleep , but could not , for the sighs and sobs of the two females were incessant . he arose on his couch and addressed them as follows : " tell me , " said he , " what is it that gives you pain of mind and causes you to bemoan your presence here . has my wife given you offense , or trespassed upon the rights of hospitality ? " " there is one point , " they added , " of which we wish to speak . you have thought our conduct very strange and rude in possessing ourselves of the choicest parts of your hunt . _ that _ was the point of trial selected to put you to . it is the wife 's peculiar privilege . you love your wife . for another to usurp what belongs to her , we know to be the severest test of her goodness of heart , and consequently of your temper and feelings . we knew your manners and customs , but we came to prove you , not by complying with but by violating them . pardon us . we are the agents of him who sent us . peace to your dwelling . farewell ! " when they ceased , total darkness filled the lodge . no object could be seen . the inmates heard the lodge - door open and shut , but they never saw more of the two spirits . the hunter found the success which they had promised . he became celebrated in the chase , and never wanted for any thing . he had many children , all of whom grew up to manhood ; and he who had lain in the lodge , a little child , while the jeebi dwelt there , led them in all good deeds , and health , peace , and long life were the rewards of the hunter 's hospitality . 