he entered the lodge . it was all in confusion and covered with ashes . on one side , sitting among the cinders , with his face blackened , and crying aloud , was his elder brother . on the other side sat the younger , jeekewis , also with blackened face , his head covered with stray feathers and tufts of swan - down . this one presented so curious a figure that maidwa could not keep from laughing . he seemed to be so lost and far - gone in grief that he could not notice his brother 's arrival . the eldest , however , after a while , lifting up his head , recognized maidwa , jumped up and shook hands , and kissed him , and expressed much joy at his return . maidwa , as soon as he had seen the lodge set in order , made known that he had brought each of them a wife . as soon as jeekewis heard a wife spoken of , he roused from his torpor , sprang to his feet , and said : " why is it just now that you have come ? " and at once made for the door and peeped out to see the strangers . he then commenced jumping and laughing , and crying out , " women ! women ! " and that was all the reception he gave his brother . maidwa told them to wash themselves and prepare , for he would go and fetch the females in . jeekewis scampered about , and began to wash himself ; but he would every now and then , with one side of his head all feathers , and the other clear and shining , peep forth to look at the women again . when they came near , he said , " i will have this and that one ; " he did not exactly know which ; he would sit down for an instant , and then rise , and peep about and laugh ; in fact he acted like one beside himself . as soon as order was restored , and all the company who had been brought in were seated , maidwa presented one of the chief 's daughters to his eldest brother , saying : " these women were given to me , to dispose of in marriage . i now give one to each . i intended so from the first . " jeekewis spoke up and said , " i think three wives would have been enough for you . " maidwa led the other daughter to jeekewis , and said , " my brother , here is one for you , and live happily . " jeekewis hung down his head as if he was ashamed , but he would every now and then steal a look at his wife and also at the other women . by and by he turned toward his wife and acted as if he had been married for years . 