as they went on and came to the lodge of the first old man , their reception and farewell were the same ; and when maidwa glanced to the corner , the silent kettle , which had been the first acquaintance he had made in that family on his travels , was not there . the old man smiled when he discovered the direction of maidwa 's glance , but he said nothing . when , on continuing their journey , they at last approached the first town which maidwa had passed in his pursuit , the watchman gave notice as before , and he was shown into the chief 's lodge . " sit down there , son - in - law , " said the chief , pointing to a place near his daughter . " and you also , " he said to the red swan . the chief 's daughter was engaged in coloring a girdle , and , as if indifferent to these visitors , she did not even raise her head . presently the chief said , " let some one bring in the bundle of our son - in - law . " when the bundle was laid before him , maidwa opened one of the bags which had been given to him . it was filled with various costly articles -- wampum , robes , and trinkets , of much richness and value ; these , in token of his kindness , he presented to the chief . the chief 's daughter stole a glance at the costly gifts , then at maidwa and his beautiful wife . she stopped working , and was silent and thoughtful all the evening . the chief himself talked with maidwa of his adventures , congratulated him on his good fortune , and concluded by telling him that he should take his daughter along with him in the morning . maidwa said " yes . " the chief then spoke up , saying , " daughter , be ready to go with him in the morning . " now it happened when the chief was thus speaking that there was a foolish fellow in the lodge , who had thought to have got this chief 's daughter for a wife ; and he jumped up , saying : " who is he , " looking grimly at maidwa , " that he should take her for a few presents ? i will kill him . " and he raised a knife which he had in his hand , and gave it a mighty flourish in the air . he kept up this terrible flourish till some one came and pulled him back to his seat , which he had been waiting for , and then he sat quiet enough . 