at last tom came to one of the city gates , and the guards laughed and cursed at him instead of letting him through . tom stood it all for a little time , but at last one of them -- out of fun , as he said -- drove his bagnet half an inch or so into his side . tom did nothing but take the fellow by the scruff of his neck and the waistband of his corduroys and fling him into the canal . some ran to pull the fellow out , and others to let manners into the vulgarian with their swords and daggers . but a tap from his club sent them headlong into the moat or down on the stones , and they were soon begging him to stay his hands . so at last one of them was glad enough to show tom the way to the palace yard . there was the king and the queen , and the princess in a gallery , looking at all sorts of wrestling and sword - playing , and rinka - fadhas ( long dances ) and mumming , all to please the princess . but not a smile came over her handsome face . well , they all stopped when they seen the young giant , with his boy 's face and long black hair , and his short curly beard -- for his poor mother could n't afford to buy razhurs -- and his great strong arms and bare legs , and no covering but the goat - skin that reached from his waist to his knees . but an envious wizened basthard of a fellow , with a red head , that wished to be married to the princess , and did n't like how she opened her eyes at tom , came forward , and asked his business very snappishly . " my business , " says tom , says he , " is to make the beautiful princess , god bless her , laugh three times . " " do you see all them merry fellows and skilful swordsmen , " says the other , " that could eat you up with a grain of salt , and not a mother 's soul of them ever got a laugh from her these seven years ? " so the fellows gathered round tom , and the bad man aggravated him till he told them he did n't care a pinch of snuff for the whole bilin ' of 'em . let 'em come on , six at a time , and try what they could do . the king , that was too far off to hear what they were saying , asked what did the stranger want . " he wants , " says the red - headed fellow , " to make hares of your best men . " " oh ! " says the king , " if that 's the way , let one of 'em turn out and try his mettle . " so one stood forward , with sword and pot - lid , and made a cut at tom . he struck the fellow 's elbow with the club , and up over their heads flew the sword , and down went the owner of it on the gravel from a thump he got on the helmet . another took his place , and another , and another , and then half a dozen at once , and tom sent swords , helmets , shields , and bodies rolling over and over , and themselves bawling out that they were kilt , and disabled , and damaged , and rubbing their poor elbows and hips , and limping away . tom contrived not to kill anyone . the princess was so amused that she let a great sweet laugh out of her that was heard all over the yard . " king of dublin , " says tom , " i 've quarter of your daughter . " and the king did n't know whether he was glad or sorry , and all the blood in the princess 's heart run into her cheeks . 