on the same day the two brothers set out on their journey to the city , the rich one on horseback , with plenty of food in his knapsack , the poor one on foot with nothing but a piece of bread and four onions to eat on the way . the road was hilly and neither could go very fast , and when night fell , they were both glad to see some lights in a window a little distance in front of them . the lights turned out to have been placed there by a farmer , who had planned to have a particularly good supper as it was his wife 's birthday , and bade the rich man enter and sit down , while he himself took the horse to the stable . the poor man asked timidly if he might spend the night in a corner , adding that he had brought his own supper with him . another time permission might have been refused him , for the farmer was no lover of humble folk , but now he gave the elder brother leave to come in , pointing out a wooden chair where he could sit . supper was soon served , and very glad the younger brother was to eat it , for his long ride had made him very hungry . the farmer 's wife , however , would touch nothing , and at last declared that the only supper she wanted was one of the onions the poor man was cooking at the fire . of course he gave it to her , though he would gladly have eaten it himself , as three onions are not much at the end of a long day 's walk , and soon after they all went to sleep , the poor man making himself as comfortable as he could in his corner . a few hours later the farmer was aroused by the cries and groans of his wife . ' oh , i feel so ill , i 'm sure i 'm going to die , ' wept she . ' it was that onion , i know it was . i wish i had never eaten it . it must have been poisoned . ' ' if the man has poisoned you he shall pay for it , ' said her husband , and seizing a thick stick he ran downstairs and began to beat the poor man , who had been sound asleep , and had nothing to defend himself with . luckily , the noise aroused the younger brother , who jumped up and snatched the stick from the farmer 's hand , saying : ' we are both going to evora to try a law - suit . come too , and accuse him there if he has attempted to rob you or murder you , but do n't kill him now , or you will get yourself into trouble . ' ' well , perhaps you are right , ' answered the farmer , ' but the sooner that fellow has his deserts , the better i shall be pleased , ' and without more words he went to the stables and brought out a horse for himself and also the black andalusian mare ridden by the rich man , while the poor brother , fearing more ill - treatment , started at once on foot . 