' there it is again on the other side ! ' said the snow - man , by which he meant the sun was appearing again . ' i have become quite accustomed to its glaring . i hope it will hang there and shine , so that i may be able to see myself . i wish i knew , though , how one ought to see about changing one 's position . i should very much like to move about . if i only could , i would glide up and down the ice there , as i saw the boys doing ; but somehow or other , i do n't know how to run . ' ' bow - wow ! ' barked the old yard - dog ; he was rather hoarse and could n't bark very well . his hoarseness came on when he was a house - dog and used to lie in front of the stove . ' the sun will soon teach you to run ! i saw that last winter with your predecessor , and farther back still with his predecessors ! they have all run away ! ' ' i do n't understand you , my friend , ' said the snow - man . ' that thing up there is to teach me to run ? ' he meant the moon . ' well , it certainly did run just now , for i saw it quite plainly over there , and now here it is on this side . ' ' you know nothing at all about it , ' said the yard - dog . ' why , you have only just been made . the thing you see there is the moon ; the other thing you saw going down the other side was the sun . he will come up again tomorrow morning , and will soon teach you how to run away down the gutter . the weather is going to change ; i feel it already by the pain in my left hind - leg ; the weather is certainly going to change . ' ' yours is a bad illness for a snow - man ! ' said the yard - dog . ' i also suffered from it , but i have got over it . bow - wow ! ' he barked . ' the weather is going to change ! ' he added . the weather did change . there came a thaw . when this set in the snow - man set off . he did not say anything , and he did not complain , and those are bad signs . one morning he broke up altogether . and lo ! where he had stood there remained a broomstick standing upright , round which the boys had built him ! ' ah ! now i understand why he loved the stove , ' said the yard - dog . ' that is the raker they use to clean out the stove ! the snow - man had a stove - raker in his body ! that 's what was the matter with him ! and now it 's all over with him ! bow - wow ! ' and before long it was all over with the winter too ! ' bow - wow ! ' barked the hoarse yard - dog . but the young girl sang : woods , your bright green garments don ! willows , your woolly gloves put on ! lark and cuckoo , daily sing- february has brought the spring ! my heart joins in your song so sweet ; come out , dear sun , the world to greet ! and no one thought of the snow - man . 