uraschimataro was still so puzzled with the adventures that had befallen him , that he waited in a dazed condition for what would happen next . but the turtle , who had talked so much of him to the princess that she had expressed a wish to see him , went at once to make known his arrival . and directly the princess beheld him her heart was set on him , and she begged him to stay with her , and in return promised that he should never grow old , neither should his beauty fade . ' is not that reward enough ? ' she asked , smiling , looking all the while as fair as the sun itself . and uraschimataro said ' yes , ' and so he stayed there . for how long ? that he only knew later . uraschimataro drew near to the village with quick and joyful steps . he saw the smoke curling through the roof , and the thatch where green plants had thickly sprouted . he heard the children shouting and calling , and from a window that he passed came the twang of the koto , and everything seemed to cry a welcome for his return . yet suddenly he felt a pang at his heart as he wandered down the street . after all , everything was changed . neither men nor houses were those he once knew . quickly he saw his old home ; yes , it was still there , but it had a strange look . anxiously he knocked at the door , and asked the woman who opened it after his parents . but she did not know their names , and could give him no news of them . still more disturbed , he rushed to the burying ground , the only place that could tell him what he wished to know . here at any rate he would find out what it all meant . and he was right . in a moment he stood before the grave of his parents , and the date written on the stone was almost exactly the date when they had lost their son , and he had forsaken them for the daughter of the sea . and so he found that since he had deft his home , three hundred years had passed by . shuddering with horror at his discovery he turned back into the village street , hoping to meet some one who could tell him of the days of old . but when the man spoke , he knew he was not dreaming , though he felt as if he had lost his senses . 