yes , he had been wrong , there was no doubt of that , and he did not quite know how it had come about . he had meant to have told his father all about it , and he was sure , quite sure , that if once the old man had seen his wife , he would have forgiven her poverty on account of her great beauty and goodness . but he had put it off from day to day , hoping always for a better opportunity , and now this was the end ! if the son had no sleep that night , no more had the father , and as soon as the sun rose , he sent a messenger into the great city with orders to bring back the younger brother . when he arrived the farmer did not waste words , but informed him that he was now his only heir , and would inherit all his lands and money , and that he was to come and live at home , and to help manage the property . though very pleased at the thought of becoming such a rich man -- for the brothers had never cared much for each other -- the younger would rather have stayed where he was , for he soon got tired of the country , and longed for a town life . however , this he kept to himself , and made the best of things , working hard like his brother before him . in this way the years went on , but the crops were not so good as they had been , and the old man gave orders that some fine houses he was building in the city should be left unfinished , for it would take all the savings to complete them . as to the elder son , he would never even hear his name mentioned , and died at last without ever seeing his face , leaving to the younger , as he had promised , all his lands , as well as his money . meanwhile , the son whom he had disinherited had grown poorer and poorer . he and his wife were always looking out for something to do , and never spent a penny that they could help , but luck was against them , and at the time of his father 's death they had hardly bread to eat or clothes to cover them . if there had been only himself , he would have managed to get on somehow , but he could not bear to watch his children becoming weaker day by day , and swallowing his pride , at length he crossed the mountains to his old home where his brother was living . 