guards were set till next morning , and then down went the second prince , and sure enough , the youngest of all got himself let down on the third day . he went down perches and perches , while it was as dark about him as if he was in a big pot with a cover on . at last he saw a glimmer far down , and in a short time he felt the ground . out he came from the big lime - kiln , and , lo ! and behold you , there was a wood , and green fields , and a castle in a lawn , and a bright sky over all . ' it 's in tir - na - n - oge i am , ' says he . ' let 's see what sort of people are in the castle . ' on he walked , across fields and lawn , and no one was there to keep him out or let him into the castle ; but the big hall - door was wide open . he went from one fine room to another that was finer , and at last he reached the handsomest of all , with a table in the middle . and such a dinner as was laid upon it ! the prince was hungry enough , but he was too mannerly to eat without being invited . so he sat by the fire , and he did not wait long till he heard steps , and in came seven inches with the youngest sister by the hand . well , prince and princess flew into one another 's arms , and says the little man , says he , ' why are n't you eating ? ' ' i think , sir , ' says the prince , ' it was only good manner to wait to be asked . ' ' the other princes did n't think so , ' says he . ' each of them fell to without leave , and only gave me the rough words when i told them they were making more free than welcome . well , i do n't think they feel much hunger now . there they are , good marble instead of flesh and blood , ' says he , pointing to two statues , one in one corner , and the other in the other corner of the room . the prince was frightened , but he was afraid to say anything , and seven inches made him sit down to dinner between himself and his bride ; and he 'd be as happy as the day is long , only for the sight of the stone men in the corner . well , that day went by , and when the next came , says seven inches to him , ' now , you 'll have to set out that way , ' pointing to the sun , ' and you 'll find the second princess in a giant 's castle this evening , when you 'll be tired and hungry , and the eldest princess to - morrow evening ; and you may as well bring them here with you . you need not ask leave of their masters ; and perhaps if they ever get home , they 'll look on poor people as if they were flesh and blood like themselves . ' 