' i will do anything that will bring me back to you , ' exclaimed uraschimataro , looking at her tenderly , but the princess was silent : she knew too well that when he left her she would see his face no more . then she took from a shelf a tiny golden box , and gave it to uraschimataro , praying him to keep it carefully , and above all things never to open it . ' if you can do this , ' she said as she bade him farewell , ' your friend the turtle will meet you at the shore , and will carry you back to me . ' uraschimataro thanked her from his heart , and swore solemnly to do her bidding . he hid the box safely in his garments , seated himself on the back of the turtle , and vanished in the ocean path , waving his hand to the princess . three days and three nights they swam through the sea , and at length uraschimataro arrived at the beach which lay before his old home . the turtle bade him farewell , and was gone in a moment . in despair he bethought him of the box which was the gift of the princess . perhaps after all this dreadful thing was not true . he might be the victim of some enchanter 's spell , and in his hand lay the counter - charm . almost unconsciously he opened it , and a purple vapour came pouring out . he held the empty box in his hand , and as he looked he saw that the fresh hand of youth had grown suddenly shrivelled , like the hand of an old , old man . he ran to the brook , which flowed in a clear stream down from the mountain . and saw himself reflected as in a mirror . it was the face of a mummy which looked back at him . wounded to death , he crept back through the village , and no man knew the old , old man to be the strong handsome youth who had run down the street an hour before . so he toiled wearily back , till he reached the shore , and here he sat sadly on a rock , and called loudly on the turtle . but she never came back any more , but instead , death came soon , and set him free . but before that happened , the people who saw him sitting lonely on the shore had heard his story , and when their children were restless they used to tell them of the good son who from love to his parents had given up for their sakes the splendour and wonders of the palace in the sea , and the most beautiful woman in the world besides . 