" i will improve on that dull fellow , " said ko - ko . " i will put them on myself . " accordingly , ko - ko had just time to draw on the moccasins when the wicked father came in sight . " go now ! " cried ko - ko , giving orders to the enchanted moccasins ; and go they did ; but to the astonishment of the owl , they turned immediately about in the way in which the wicked father , now , very furious , was approaching . " the other way ! the other way ! " cried ko - ko . cry as loud as he would , the enchanted moccasins would keep on in their own course ; and before he could shake himself out of them , they had run him directly into the face of the wicked father . " what do you mean , you owl ? " cried the wicked father , falling upon ko - ko with a huge club , and counting his ribs at every stroke . " i can not help it , good man , " answered ko - ko . " i tried my best- " ko - ko would have gone the other way , but the enchanted moccasins kept hurrying him forward . " stand off , will you ? " cried the old man . by this time , allowing the wicked father chance to bestow no more than five - and - twenty more blows upon ko - ko , the moccasins were taking him past . " stop ! " cried the old man again . " you are running away . ho ! ho ! you are a coward ! " " i am not , good man , " answered ko - ko , carried away by the magical shoes , " i assure you . " but ere he could finish his avowal , the moccasins had hurried him out of sight . " at any rate , i shall soon be home at this speed , " said ko - koor to himself . the moccasins seemed to know his thoughts ; for just then they gave a sudden leap , slipped away from his feet , and left the owl flat upon his back ! while they glided home by themselves , to the lodge of onwee bahmondang , where they belonged . a party of hunters passing that way after several days , found ko - ko sitting among the bushes , looking greatly bewildered ; and when they inquired of him how he had succeeded with the wicked father at the lodge , he answered that he had demolished the whole establishment , but that his name was not ko - ko , but onwee bahmondang ; saying which , he ran away into the woods , and was never seen more . 