as he opened his eyes , in a dreamy way , he saw the kettle near him . some of the fish he observed were in the bowl . the fire flickered , and made light and shadow ; but nowhere was wassamo to be seen . he waited , and waited again , in the expectation that wassamo would appear . " perhaps , " thought the cousin , " he is gone out again to visit the nets . " he looked off that way , but the canoe still lay close by the rock at the shore . he searched and found his footsteps in the ashes , and out upon the green ground a little distance , and then they were utterly lost . he was now greatly troubled in spirit , and he called aloud , " netawis ! cousin ! cousin ! " but there was no answer to his call . he called again in his sorrow , louder and louder , " netawis ! netawis ! cousin ! cousin ! whither are you gone ? " but no answer came to his voice of wailing . he started for the edge of the woods , crying as he ran , " my cousin ! " and " oh , my cousin ! " hither and thither through the forest he sped with all his fleetness of foot and quickness of spirit ; and when at last he found that no voice would answer him , he burst into tears , and sobbed aloud . he returned to the fire , and sat down . he mused upon the absence of wassamo with a sorely - troubled heart . " he may have been playing me a trick , " he thought ; but it was full time that the trick should be at an end , and wassamo returned not . the cousin cherished other hopes , but they all died away in the morning light , when he found himself alone by the hunting - fire . " how shall i answer to his friends for wassamo ? " thought the cousin . " although , " he said to himself , " his parents are my kindred , and they are well assured that their son is my bosom - friend , will they receive that belief in the place of him who is lost . no , no ; they will say that i have slain him , and they will require blood for blood . oh ! my cousin , whither are you gone ? " he would have rested to restore his mind to its peace , but he could not sleep ; and , without further regard to net or canoe , he set off for the village , running all the way . as they saw him approaching at such speed and alone , they said , " some accident has happened . " 