maidwa answered , " i will try . " betimes in the morning , after having eaten from the magic kettle , which sung a sort of farewell chant on its way from the fire - place to its station in the corner , he set off on his journey . toward evening , maidwa , as he crossed a prairie , heard , as had been predicted , groans from a distant lodge , which were only interrupted by a voice from a person whom he could not see , calling to him aloud : " come in ! come in ! " on entering the lodge , the magician heaved a great groan from the very bottom of his chest , and maidwa saw that the crown of his head was all bare and bloody . " sit down , sit down , " he said , " while i prepare you something to eat . you see how poor i am . i have to attend to all my own wants , with no other servant than that poor little kettle in the corner . kettle , we will have something to eat , if you please . " " in a moment , " the kettle spoke up from the corner . " you will oblige me by making all the dispatch you can , " said the magician , in a very humble tone , still addressing the kettle . " have patience , " replied the kettle , " and i will be with you presently . " after a considerable delay , there came forward out of the corner from which it had spoken , a great heavy - browed and pot - bodied kettle , which advanced with much stateliness and solemnity of manner till it had come directly in front of the magician , whom it addressed with the question : " what shall we have , sir ? " " corn , if you please , " the magician answered . " no , we will have whortleberries , " rejoined the kettle , in a firm voice . " very well ; just as you choose . " when he supposed it was time , the magician invited maidwa to help himself . " thank you , my friend , " he said . " your kindness and bravery of heart have restored me to my former shape . it was so ordained , and you have now accomplished the victory . " they embraced ; and the young magician urged the stay of his deliverer for a few days , and they formed a strong attachment to each other . the magician , to the deep regret of maidwa , never once alluded to the red swan in all their conferences . at last the day arrived when maidwa prepared to return to his home . the young magician bestowed on him ample presents of wampum , fur , robes , and other costly things . although maidwa 's heart was burning within him to see the red swan , to hear her spoken of , and to learn what his fortune was to be in regard to that fond object of his pursuit , he constrained his feelings , and so checked his countenance as to never look where he supposed she might be . his friend the young magician observed the same silence and caution . 