of his father he saw little . his mind had become impaired , and he was confined in a secluded part of the dun . but whenever he spoke to dectera of what was nearest his heart , and his desire to enter the military school at emain macha , she laughed , and said that he was not yet old enough to endure that rough life . but secretly she was alarmed , and formed plans to detain him at home altogether . then setanta concealed his desire , but enquired narrowly concerning the partings of the roads on the way to emania . at last , when he was ten years old , selecting a favourable night , setanta stole away from his father 's dun , and before morning had crossed the frontier . he then lay down to rest and sleep in a wood . after this he set out again , travelling quickly , lest he should be met by any of his father 's people . on his back was strapped his little wooden shield , and by his side hung a sword of lath . he had brought his ball and hurle of red - bronze with him , and ran swiftly along the road , driving the ball before him , or throwing up his javelin into the air , and running to meet it ere it fell . in the afternoon of that day fergus mac roy and the king sat together in the part that surrounded the king 's palace . a chessboard was between them , and their attention was fixed on the game . at a distance the young nobles were at their sports , and the shouts of the boys and the clash of the metal hurles resounded in the evening air . suddenly , the noise ceased , and fergus and the king looked up . they saw a strange boy rushing backwards and forwards through the crowd of young nobles , urging the ball in any direction that he pleased , as if in mockery , till none but the very best players attempted to stop him , while the rest stood about the ground in groups . fergus and the king looked at each other for a moment in silence . after this the boys came together into a group and held a council . then commenced what seemed to be an attempt to force him out of the ground , followed by a furious fight . the strange boy seemed to be a very demon of war ; with his little hurle grasped , like a war - mace , in both hands , he laid about him on every side , and the boys were tumbling fast . he sprang at tall youths , like a hound at a stag 's throat . he rushed through crowds of his enemies like a hawk through a flock of birds . the boys , seized with a panic , cried out that it was one of the tuatha from the fairy hills of the boyne , and fled right and left to gain the shelter of the trees . some of them , pursued by the stranger , ran round conchubar mac nessa and his knight . the boy , however , running straight , sprang over the chess table ; but conchubar seized him deftly by the wrist and brought him to a stand , but with dilated eyes and panting . 