" but , " said finn , " how is it that thy young warriors , valiant and swift , do not repel him , or kill him ? " " alas ! " said conn , " all our valour is in vain against this man . our hosts encompass tara on all sides , keeping watch and ward when the fatal night comes . then the son of midna plays on his druidic instrument of music , on his magic pipe and his magic lyre , and as the fairy music falls on our ears , our eyelids grow heavy , and soon all subside upon the grass in deep slumber . so comes this man against the city and shoots his fire - balls against it , and utterly consumes it . nine years he has burnt tara in that manner , and this is the tenth . at midnight to - night he will come and do the same . last year ( though it was a shame to me that i , who am the high king over all ireland , should not be able myself to defend tara ) i summoned gaul mac morna and all the fians to my assistance . they came , but the pipe and lyre of the son of midna prevailed over them too , so that tara was burned as at other times . nor have we any reason to believe that the son of midna will not burn the city again to - night , as he did last year . all the women and children have been sent out of tara this day . we are only men of war here , waiting for the time . that , o noble youth , is why we are sad . the ' pillars of tara ' are broken , and the might of the fians is as nought before the power of this man . " " what shall be my reward if i kill this man and save tara ? " asked finn . " thy inheritance , " answered the king , " be it great or small , and whether it lies in ireland or beyond ireland ; and for securities i give you my son art and gaul mac morna and the chief of the fians . " gaul and the captains of the fianna consented to that arrangement , though reluctantly , for their minds misgave them as to who the great youth might be . after that all arose and armed themselves and ringed tara round with horse and foot , and thrice conn the hundred - fighter raised his awful regal voice , enjoining vigilance upon his people , and thrice gaul mac morna did the same , addressing the fians , and after that they filled their ears with wax and wool , and kept a stern and fierce watch , and many of them thrust the points of their swords into their flesh . now finn was alone in the banqueting chamber after the rest had gone out , and he washed his face and his hands in pure water , and he took from the bag that was at his girdle the instruments of divination and magic , which had been his father 's , and what use he made of them is not known ; but ere long a man stood before him , holding a spear in one hand and a blue mantle in the other . there were twenty nails of gold of arabia in the spear . 