so the slave hastened to the king 's palace and gave his message , which troubled both the king and the queen greatly . a pot of hot gruel was instantly prepared , and carried over to the sick man , and as soon as the council which was sitting was over , the king and his ministers went to pay him a visit , bearing a message from the queen that she would follow a little later . now the prince had pretended to be ill in order to soften his parent 's hearts , and the next day he declared he felt better , and , getting into his litter , was carried to the palace in state , drums being beaten all along the road . he dismounted at the foot of the steps and walked up , a great parasol being held over his head by a slave . then he entered the cool , dark room where his father and mother were sitting , and said to them : ' i saw a girl yesterday in the forest whom i wish to marry , and , unknown to my attendants , i brought her back to my house in a litter . give me your consent , i beg , for no other woman pleases me as well , even though she has but one hand ! ' of course the king and queen would have preferred a daughter - in - law with two hands , and one who could have brought riches with her , but they could not bear to say ' no ' to their son , so they told him it should be as he chose , and that the wedding feast should be prepared immediately . the girl could scarcely believe her good fortune , and , in gratitude for all the kindness shown her , was so useful and pleasant to her husband 's parents that they soon loved her . by and bye a baby was born to her , and soon after that the prince was sent on a journey by his father to visit some of the distant towns of the kingdom , and to set right things that had gone wrong . no sooner had he started than the girl 's brother , who had wasted all the riches his wife had brought him in recklessness and folly , and was now very poor , chanced to come into the town , and as he passed he heard a man say , ' do you know that the king 's son has married a woman who has lost one of her hands ? ' on hearing these words the brother stopped and asked , ' where did he find such a woman ? ' ' in the forest , ' answered the man , and the cruel brother guessed at once it must be his sister . 