a famous hunter who lived in a remote part of the north had a fair wife and two sons , who were left in the lodge every day while he went out in quest of the animals whose flesh was their principal support . game was very abundant in those days , and his labors in the chase were well rewarded . they lived a long distance from any other lodge , and it was seldom that they saw any other faces than those of their own household . the two sons were still too young to follow their father in the hunt , and they were in the habit of diverting themselves within reach of the lodge . while thus engaged , they began to take note that a young man visited the lodge during their father 's absence , and that these visits were constantly renewed . at length the elder of the two said to his mother : " my mother , who is this tall young man that comes here so often during our father 's absence ? does he wish to see him ? shall i tell him when he comes back this evening ? " " naubesah , you little fool , " said the mother , " mind your bow and arrows , and do not be afraid to enter the forest in search of birds and squirrels , with your little brother . it is not manly to be ever about the lodge . nor will you become a warrior if you tell all the little things that you see and hear to your father . say not a word to him . " the boys obeyed , but as they grew older and still noticed the visits of the stranger , they resolved to speak again to their mother . they now told her that they meant to make known to their father all that they had witnessed , for they frequently saw this young man passing through the woods , and he did not walk in the path , nor did he carry any thing to eat . if he had any message to deliver at their lodge , why did he not give it to their father ? for they had observed that messages were always addressed to men , and not to women . when her sons spoke thus to her , the mother was greatly vexed . " i will kill you , " she said , " if you speak of it . " in fear they for a time held their peace , but still taking note that the stranger came so often and by stealth to the lodge , they resolved at last to speak with their father . accordingly one day , when they were out in the woods , learning to follow the chase , they told him all that they had seen . the face of the father grew dark . he was still for a while , and when at length he looked up- " it is done ! " he said . " do you , my children , tarry here until the hour of the falling of the sun , then come to the lodge and you will find me . " the father left them at a slow pace , and they remained sporting away their time till the hour for their return had come . when they reached the lodge the mother was not there . they dared not to ask their father whither she had gone , and from that day forth her name was never spoken again in the lodge . in course of time the two boys had grown to be men , and although the mother was never more seen in the lodge , in charge of her household tasks , nor on the path in the forest , nor by the river side , she still lingered , ever and ever , near the lodge . 