the whole day the snow - man looked through the window ; towards dusk the room grew still more inviting ; the stove gave out a mild light , not at all like the moon or even the sun ; no , as only a stove can shine , when it has something to feed upon . when the door of the room was open , it flared up - this was one of its peculiarities ; it flickered quite red upon the snow - man 's white face . ' i ca n't stand it any longer ! ' he said . ' how beautiful it looks with its tongue stretched out like that ! ' it was a long night , but the snow - man did not find it so ; there he stood , wrapt in his pleasant thoughts , and they froze , so that he cracked . next morning the panes of the kitchen window were covered with ice , and the most beautiful ice - flowers that even a snow - man could desire , only they blotted out the stove . the window would not open ; he could n't see the stove which he thought was such a lovely lady . there was a cracking and cracking inside him and all around ; there was just such a frost as a snow - man would delight in . but this snow - man was different : how could he feel happy ? ' yours is a bad illness for a snow - man ! ' said the yard - dog . ' i also suffered from it , but i have got over it . bow - wow ! ' he barked . ' the weather is going to change ! ' he added . the weather did change . there came a thaw . when this set in the snow - man set off . he did not say anything , and he did not complain , and those are bad signs . one morning he broke up altogether . and lo ! where he had stood there remained a broomstick standing upright , round which the boys had built him ! ' ah ! now i understand why he loved the stove , ' said the yard - dog . ' that is the raker they use to clean out the stove ! the snow - man had a stove - raker in his body ! that 's what was the matter with him ! and now it 's all over with him ! bow - wow ! ' and before long it was all over with the winter too ! ' bow - wow ! ' barked the hoarse yard - dog . but the young girl sang : woods , your bright green garments don ! willows , your woolly gloves put on ! lark and cuckoo , daily sing- february has brought the spring ! my heart joins in your song so sweet ; come out , dear sun , the world to greet ! and no one thought of the snow - man . 