there lived a hunter in the north , who had a wife and one child . his lodge stood far off in the forest , several days ' journey from any other . he spent his days in hunting , and his evenings in relating to his wife the incidents that had befallen him . as game was very abundant , he found no difficulty in killing as much as they wanted . just in all his acts , he lived a peaceful and happy life . one evening during the winter season , it chanced that he remained out longer than usual , and his wife began to fear that some accident had befallen him . it was already dark . she listened attentively , and at last heard the sound of approaching footsteps . not doubting that it was her husband , she went to the door and beheld two strange females . she bade them enter , and invited them to remain . she observed that they were total strangers in the country . there was something so peculiar in their looks , air and manner , that she was disturbed by their presence . they would not come near to the fire . they sat in a remote part of the lodge , shy and taciturn , and drew their garments about them in such a manner as nearly to hide their faces . so far as she could judge , they were pale , hollow - eyed , and long - visaged , very thin and emaciated . there was but little light in the lodge , as the fire was low , and its fitful flashes , by disclosing their white faces and then dropping them in sudden darkness , served rather to increase than to dispel her fears . " merciful spirit ! " cried a voice from the opposite part of the lodge ; " there are two corpses clothed with garments ! " the hunter 's wife turned around , but seeing nobody save her little child , staring across from under his blanket , she said to herself , " the boy can not speak ; the sounds were but the gusts of wind . " she trembled , and was ready to sink to the earth . her husband at this moment entered , and in some measure relieved her alarm . he threw down the carcass of a large fat deer . " behold what a fine and fat animal ! " cried the mysterious females ; and they immediately ran and pulled off pieces of the whitest fat , which they greedily devoured . the hunter and his wife looked on with astonishment , but remained silent . they supposed that their guests might have been stricken with famine . the next day , however , the same unusual conduct was repeated . the strange females again tore off the fat and devoured it with eagerness . the third day , the hunter thought that he would anticipate their wants by tying up a share of the hunt , and placing it apart for their express use . they accepted it , but still appeared dissatisfied , and went to the wife 's portion and tore off more . the hunter and his wife were surprised at such rude and unaccountable conduct , but they remained silent , for they respected their guests , and had observed that they had been attended with marked good luck during the sojourn of these mysterious visitors in their lodge . in other respects , the deportment of the females was strictly unexceptionable . they were modest , distant , and silent . they never uttered a word during the day . at night they would occupy themselves in procuring wood , which they carried to the lodge , and then , restoring the implements exactly where they had found them , resume their places without speaking . they were never known to stay out until daylight . they never laughed or jested . the winter was nearly passed away , when , one evening , the hunter was abroad later than usual . the moment he came in and laid down his day 's hunt , as was his custom , before his wife , the two females seized upon the deer and began to tear off the fat in so unceremonious a way that her anger was excited . she constrained herself , however , in a good degree , but she could not conceal her feelings , though she said but little . the strange guests observed the state of her mind , and they became uneasy , and withdrew further still into the remote gloom of the lodge . the good hunter saw the eclipse that was darkening the quiet of his lodge , and carefully inquired of its cause ; but his wife denied having used any words of complaining or reproach . they retired to their couches , and the hunter tried to compose himself to sleep , but could not , for the sighs and sobs of the two females were incessant . he arose on his couch and addressed them as follows : " tell me , " said he , " what is it that gives you pain of mind and causes you to bemoan your presence here . has my wife given you offense , or trespassed upon the rights of hospitality ? " 