' here , my poor darling,'says he , ' is your eldest child , and there , ' says he , pointing to a woman that was looking on with a smile on her face , ' is the eagle that carried him away . ' she forgot all her sorrows in a moment , hugging her child , and laughing and crying over him . the woman washed their feet , and rubbed them with an ointment that took all the soreness out of their bones , and made them as fresh as a daisy . next morning , just before sunrise , he was up , and prepared to be off , ' here , ' said he to her , ' is a thing which may be of use to you . it 's a scissors , and whatever stuff you cut with it will be turned into silk . the moment the sun rises , i 'll lose all memory of yourself and the children , but i 'll get it at sunset again . farewell ! ' but he was n't far gone till she was in sight of him again , leaving her boy behind . it was the same to - day as yesterday : their shadows went before them in the morning and followed them in the evening . he never stopped , and she never stopped , and as the sun was setting he turned up another lane , and there they found their little daughter . it was all joy and comfort again till morning , and then the third day 's journey commenced . but before he started he gave her a comb , and told her that whenever she used it , pearls and diamonds would fall from her hair . still he had his memory from sunset to sunrise ; but from sunrise to sunset he travelled on under the charm , and never threw his eye behind . this night they came to where the youngest baby was , and the next morning , just before sunrise , the prince spoke to her for the last time . ' here , my poor wife , ' said he , ' is a little hand - reel , with gold thread that has no end , and the half of our marriage ring . if you ever get to my house , and put your half - ring to mine , i shall recollect you . there is a wood yonder , and the moment i enter it i shall forget everything that ever happened between us , just as if i was born yesterday . farewell , dear wife and child , for ever ! ' just then the sun rose , and away he walked towards the wood . she saw it open before him and close after him , and when she came up , she could no more get in than she could break through a stone wall . she wrung her hands and shed tears , but then she recollected herself , and cried out , ' wood , i charge you by my three magic gifts , the scissors , the comb , and the reel -- to let me through ' ; and it opened , and she went along a walk till she came in sight of a palace , and a lawn , and a woodman 's cottage on the edge of the wood where it came nearest the palace . 