three brothers were left destitute , by the death of their parents , at an early age . the eldest was not yet able to provide fully for their support , but he did all that he could in hunting . with this aid , and the stock of provisions already laid by in the lodge , they managed to keep along . they had no neighbors to lend them a helping hand , for the father had withdrawn many years before from the body of the tribe , and had lived ever since in a solitary place . the lads had no idea that there was a human being near them . they did not even know who their parents had been . at the time of their death , the eldest was too young to remember it . forlorn as they were , they however kept a good heart , and making use of every chance , in course of time they all acquired a knowledge of hunting and the pursuit of game . the eldest became expert in the craft of the forest , and he was very successful in procuring food . he was noted for his skill in killing buffalo , elk , and moose . he instructed his brothers , so that each should become a master over a particular animal which was assigned to him . after they had become able to hunt and to take care of themselves , the elder proposed to leave them and to go in search of the world , promising to return as soon as he could procure them wives . in this intention he was overruled by his brothers , who said that they could not part with him . jeekewis , the second , was loud in disapproval of the scheme , saying : " what will you do with those you propose to get ? we have lived so long by ourselves , we can still do without them . " this counsel prevailed , and for a time the three brothers continued together . one day they agreed to kill each a male of that kind of animal , which each was most expert in hunting , for the purpose of making quivers from their skins . when these quivers were prepared , they were straightway filled , with arrows . they all had a presentiment that something was about to happen which called upon them to be ready . 