well , they were n't crossing the lake while a cat would be lickin ' her ear , and the poor men could n't stir hand or foot to follow them . they saw seven inches handing the three princesses out of the boat , and letting them down by a basket into a draw - well , but king nor princes ever saw an opening before in the same place . when the last lady was out of sight , the men found the strength in their arms and legs again . round the lake they ran , and never drew rein till they came to the well and windlass ; and there was the silk rope rolled on the axle , and the nice white basket hanging to it . ' let me down , ' says the youngest prince . ' i 'll die or recover them again . ' ' no , ' says the second daughter 's sweetheart , ' it is my turn first . ' and says the other , ' i am the eldest . ' so they gave way to him , and in he got into the basket , and down they let him . first they lost sight of him , and then , after winding off a hundred perches of the silk rope , it slackened , and they stopped turning . they waited two hours , and then they went to dinner , because there was no pull made at the rope . guards were set till next morning , and then down went the second prince , and sure enough , the youngest of all got himself let down on the third day . he went down perches and perches , while it was as dark about him as if he was in a big pot with a cover on . at last he saw a glimmer far down , and in a short time he felt the ground . out he came from the big lime - kiln , and , lo ! and behold you , there was a wood , and green fields , and a castle in a lawn , and a bright sky over all . ' it 's in tir - na - n - oge i am , ' says he . ' let 's see what sort of people are in the castle . ' on he walked , across fields and lawn , and no one was there to keep him out or let him into the castle ; but the big hall - door was wide open . he went from one fine room to another that was finer , and at last he reached the handsomest of all , with a table in the middle . and such a dinner as was laid upon it ! the prince was hungry enough , but he was too mannerly to eat without being invited . so he sat by the fire , and he did not wait long till he heard steps , and in came seven inches with the youngest sister by the hand . 