it was the eve of samhain , which we christians call all hallows ' eve . the king of ireland , conn , the hundred - fighter , sat at supper in his palace at tara . all his chiefs and mighty men were with him . on his right hand was his only son , art the solitary , so called because he had no brothers . the sons of morna , who kept the boy finn out of his rights and were at the time trying to kill him if they could , were here too . chief amongst them was gaul mac morna , a huge and strong warrior , and captain of all the fians ever since that battle in which finn 's father had been killed . and gaul 's men were with him . the great long table was spread for supper . a thousand wax candles shed their light through the chamber , and caused the vessels of gold , silver , and bronze to shine . yet , though it was a great feast , none of these warriors seemed to care about eating or drinking ; every face was sad , and there was little conversation , and no music . it seemed as if they were expecting some calamity . conn 's sceptre , which was a plain staff of silver , lay beside him on the table , and there was a canopy of bright bronze over his head . gaul mac morna , captain of the fians , sat at the other end of the long table . every warrior wore a bright banqueting mantle of silk or satin , scarlet or crimson , blue , green , or purple , fastened on the breast either with a great brooch or with a pin of gold or silver . yet , though their raiment was bright and gay , and though all the usual instruments of festivity were there , and a thousand tall candles shed their light over the scene , no one looked happy . then was heard a low sound like thunder , and the earth seemed to tremble , and after that they distinctly heard a footfall like the slow , deliberate tread of a giant . these footfalls sent a chill into every heart , and every face , gloomy before , was now pale . the king leaned past his son art the solitary , and said to a certain druid who sat beside art , " is this the son of midna come before his time ? " " it is not , " said the druid , " but it is the man who is to conquer midna . one is coming to tara this night before whose glory all other glory shall wax dim . " shortly after that they heard the voices of the doorkeepers raised in contention , as if they would repel from the hall someone who wished to enter , then a slight scuffle , and after that a strange figure entered the chamber . he was dressed in the skins of wild beasts , and wore over his shoulders a huge thick cloak of wild boars ' skins , fastened on the breast with a white tusk of the same animal . he wore a shield and two spears . though of huge stature his face was that of a boy , smooth on the cheeks and lips . it was white and ruddy , and very handsome . his hair was like refined gold . a light seemed to go out from him , before which the candles burned dim . it was finn . he stood in the doorway , and cried out in a strong and sonorous , but musical , voice : " o illustrious prince , though it is not right for a guest to even seem to observe aught that may be awry , or not as it should be , in the hall of his entertainer , yet the sorrow of a kindly host is a sorrow , too , to his guest , and sometimes unawares the man of the house finds succour and help in the stranger . there is sorrow in this chamber of festivity . if anyone who is dear to thee and thy people happens to be dead , i can do nothing . but i say it , and it is not a vain boast , that even if a person is at the point of death , i can restore him to life and health , for there are marvellous powers of life - giving in my two hands . " conn the hundred - fighter answered , " our grief is not such as you suppose ; and why should i not tell a cause of shame , which is known far and wide ? this , then , is the reason of our being together , and the gloom which is over us . there is a mighty enchanter whose dwelling is in the haunted mountains of slieve gullion in the north . his name is allen , son of midna , and his enmity to me is as great as his power . once every year , at this season , it is his pleasure to burn tara . descending out of his wizard haunts , he standeth over against the city and shoots balls of fire out of his mouth against it , till it is consumed . then he goes away mocking and triumphant . this annual building of tara , only to be annually consumed , is a shame to me , and till this enchanter declared war against me , i have lived without reproach . " 