it was the first time for long that the two men had come face to face , and they looked at each other in silence . then tears rose in the eyes of the elder , but winking them hastily away , he said : ' brother , it is not needful that i should tell you how poor i am ; you can see that for yourself . i have not come to beg for money , but only to ask if you will give me those unfinished houses of yours in the city , and i will make them watertight , so that my wife and children can live in them , and that will save our rent . for as they are , they profit you nothing . ' and the younger brother listened and pitied him , and gave him the houses that he asked for , and the elder went away happy . for some years things went on as they were , and then the rich brother began to feel lonely , and thought to himself that he was getting older , and it was time for him to be married . the wife he chose was very wealthy , but she was also very greedy , and however much she had , she always wanted more . she was , besides , one of those unfortunate people who invariably fancy that the possessions of other people must be better than their own . many a time her poor husband regretted the day that he had first seen her , and often her meanness and shabby ways put him to shame . but he had not the courage to rule her , and she only got worse and worse . after she had been married a few months the bride wanted to go into the city and buy herself some new dresses . she had never been there before , and when she had finished her shopping , she thought she would pay a visit to her unknown sister - in - law , and rest for a bit . the house she was seeking was in a broad street , and ought to have been very magnificent , but the carved stone portico enclosed a mean little door of rough wood , while a row of beautiful pillars led to nothing . the dwelling on each side were in the same unfinished condition , and water trickled down the walls . most people would have considered it a wretched place , and turned their backs on it as soon as they could , but this lady saw that by spending some money the houses could be made as splendid as they were originally intended to be , and she instantly resolved to get them for herself . 