he turned the dragon out into the sea at last . he went away then , and said that he would return the next day . he left the steed again in the place where he found it , and he took the fine suit off him , and when the other people returned he was before them . when the people came home that night they were all talking and saying that some champion came to fight with the dragon and turned him out into the sea again . that was the story that every person had , but they did not know who was the champion who did it . the next day , when his master and the other people were gone , he went to the castle of the three giants again , and he took out another steed and another suit of valour ( i.e. , armour ) , and he brought with him the second giant 's sword , and he went to the place where the dragon was to come . the king 's daughter was bound to a post on the shore , waiting for him , and the eyes going out on her head looking would she see the champion coming who fought the dragon the day before . there were twice as many people in it as there were on the first day , and they were all waiting till they would see the champion coming . when the dragon came the lad went in face of him , and the dragon was half confused and sickened after the fight that he had made the day before . they were beating one another till the evening , and then he drove away the dragon . the people tried to keep him , but they were not able . he went from them . when his master came home that evening the lad was in the house before him . the master told him that another champion came that day , and that he had turned the dragon into the sea . but no doubt the lad knew the story better himself than he did . on the next day , when the gentleman was gone , he went to the caher of the giants , and he took with him another steed and another suit and the sword of the third giant , and when he came to fight with the dragon the people thought it was another champion who was in it . he himself and the dragon were beating each other , then , and the sorra such a fight you ever saw . there were wings on the dragon , and when he was getting it tight he rose up in the air , and he was thrusting and beating the boy in his skull till he was nearly destroyed . he remembered the black thong then , and said , " black thong , bind that one so hard that they 'll be listening to his screeching in the two divisions of the world with the squeezing that you 'll give him . " the black thong leapt away , and she bound him , and then the lad took the head off him , and the sea was red with his blood , and the waves of blood were going on the top of the water . the lad came to the land , then , and they tried to keep him ; but he went from them , and as he was riding by the lady snatched the shoe off him . 