for some years things went on as they were , and then the rich brother began to feel lonely , and thought to himself that he was getting older , and it was time for him to be married . the wife he chose was very wealthy , but she was also very greedy , and however much she had , she always wanted more . she was , besides , one of those unfortunate people who invariably fancy that the possessions of other people must be better than their own . many a time her poor husband regretted the day that he had first seen her , and often her meanness and shabby ways put him to shame . but he had not the courage to rule her , and she only got worse and worse . after she had been married a few months the bride wanted to go into the city and buy herself some new dresses . she had never been there before , and when she had finished her shopping , she thought she would pay a visit to her unknown sister - in - law , and rest for a bit . the house she was seeking was in a broad street , and ought to have been very magnificent , but the carved stone portico enclosed a mean little door of rough wood , while a row of beautiful pillars led to nothing . the dwelling on each side were in the same unfinished condition , and water trickled down the walls . most people would have considered it a wretched place , and turned their backs on it as soon as they could , but this lady saw that by spending some money the houses could be made as splendid as they were originally intended to be , and she instantly resolved to get them for herself . full of this idea she walked up the marble staircase , and entered the little room where her sister - in - law sat , making clothes for her children . the bride seemed full of interest in the houses , and asked a great many questions about them , so that her new relations liked her much better than they expected , and hoped they might be good friends . however , as soon as she reached home , she went straight to her husband , and told him that he must get back those houses from his brother , as they would exactly suit her , and she could easily make them into a palace as fine as the king 's . but her husband only told her that she might buy houses in some other part of the town , for she could not have those , as he had long since made a gift of them to his brother , who had lived there for many years past . at this answer the wife grew very angry . she began to cry , and made such a noise that all the neighbours heard her and put their heads out of the windows , to see what was the matter . ' it was absurd , ' she sobbed out , ' quite unjust . indeed , if you came to think of it , the gift was worth nothing , as when her husband made it he was a bachelor , and since then he had been married , and she had never given her consent to any such thing . ' and so she lamented all day and all night , till the poor man was nearly worried to death ; and at last he did what she wished , and summoned his brother in a court of law to give up the houses which , he said , had only been lent to him . but when the evidence on both sides had been heard , the judge decided in favour of the poor man , which made the rich lady more furious than ever , and she determined not to rest until she had gained the day . if one judge would not give her the houses another should , and so time after time the case was tried over again , till at last it came before the highest judge of all , in the city of evora . her husband was heartily tired and ashamed of the whole affair , but his weakness in not putting a stop to it in the beginning had got him into this difficulty , and now he was forced to go on . 