after walking for some time without a path , musing upon the open country , and enjoying the fragrant breeze , he suddenly came to a ring worn among the grass and the flowers . it was as if it had been made by footsteps moving lightly round and round . but it was strange - so strange as to cause the white hawk to pause and gaze long and fixedly upon the ground . there was no path which led to this flowery circle . there was not even a crushed leaf nor a broken twig , nor the least trace of a footstep , approaching or retiring , to be found . he thought he would hide himself and lie in wait to discover , if he could , what this strange circle meant . presently he heard the faint sounds of music in the air . he looked up in the direction they came from , and as the magic notes died away he saw a small object , like a little summer cloud that approaches the earth , floating down from above . at first it was very small , and seemed as if it could have been blown away by the first breeze that came along . but it rapidly grew as he gazed upon it , and the music every moment came clearer and more sweetly to his ear . as it neared the earth it appeared as a basket , and it was filled with twelve sisters , of the most lovely forms and enchanting beauty . as soon as the basket touched the ground they leaped out . they began straightway to dance , in the most joyous manner , around the magic ring , striking , as they did so , a shining ball , which uttered the most ravishing melodies , and kept time as they danced . the white hawk , from his concealment , entranced , gazed upon their graceful forms and movements . he admired them all , but he was most pleased with the youngest . he longed to be at her side , to embrace her , to call her his own . unable to remain longer a silent admirer , he rushed out and endeavored to seize this twelfth beauty who so enchanted him . but the sisters , with the quickness of birds , the moment they descried the form of a man , leaped back into the basket , and were drawn up into the sky . lamenting his ill - luck , waupee gazed longingly upon the fairy basket as it ascended and bore the lovely sisters from his view . " they are gone , " he said , " and i shall see them no more . " he returned to his solitary lodge , but he found no relief to his mind . he walked abroad , but to look at the sky , which had withdrawn from his sight the only being he had ever loved , was painful to him now . the next day , selecting the same hour , the white hawk went back to the prairie , and took his station near the ring . in order to deceive the sisters , he assumed the form of an opossum , and sat among the grass as if he were there engaged in chewing the cud . he had not waited long when he saw the cloudy basket descend , and heard the same sweet music falling as before . he crept slowly toward the ring . but the instant the sisters caught sight of him they were startled , and sprang into their car . it rose a short distance when one of the elder sisters spoke : " perhaps , " she said , " it is come to show us how the game is played by mortals . " " oh no , " the youngest replied ; " quick , let us ascend . " and all joining in a chant , they rose out of sight . waupee , casting off his disguise , walked sorrowfully back to his lodge - but ah , the night seemed very long to lonely white hawk ! his whole soul was filled with the thought of the beautiful sister . 