she was such a dainty little creature that the astonished countryman stopped working , stuck his spade into the ground , and gazed at her in wonder . his wonder increased when she held up one of her tiny fingers and addressed him in these words : " what would you think if i were to send my husband to uncover your house ? you mortals think that you can do aught that pleases you . " then , stamping her tiny foot , she added in a voice of command , " put back that turf instantly , or you shall regret this day . " now the poor man had often heard of the fairy folk and of the harm that they could work to unthinking mortals who offended them , so in fear and trembling he set to work to undo all his labour , and to place every divot in the exact spot from which he had taken it . when he was finished he looked round for his strange visitor , but she had vanished completely . he could not tell how , nor where . putting up his spade , he wended his way homewards , and going straight to his master , he told him the whole story . he suggested that in future the peats should be taken from the other end of the moor . but the master only laughed . he was a strong , hearty man , and had no belief in ghosts , or elves , or fairies , or any other creature that he could not see . although he laughed , he was vexed that his servant should believe in such things , so to cure him , as he thought , of his superstition , he ordered him to take a horse and cart and go back at once , and lift all the peats and bring them to dry in the farm steading . the poor man obeyed with much reluctance . he was greatly relieved , as weeks went on , to find that , in spite of his having done so , no harm befell him . as it drew toward evening someone touched his elbow . he turned round with a start to see the little woman with the green dress and scarlet stockings , who had remonstrated with him for lifting the turf the year before , standing by his side . " the divots which you took from the roof of my house have grown once more , " she said , " and once more it is covered with grass . so you can go home again , for justice is satisfied -- your punishment has lasted long enough . but first must you take your solemn oath never to tell to mortal ears what you have seen while you have dwelt among us . " the countryman promised gladly , and took the oath with all due solemnity . then the door was opened , and he was at liberty to depart . 