when they got to the edge of the lake what did they find but the beautifullest boat you ever saw in your life ; and says the eldest , ' i 'll take a sail in this fine boat ' ; and says the second eldest , ' i 'll take a sail in this fine boat ' ; and says the youngest , ' i wo n't take a sail in that fine boat , for i am afraid it 's an enchanted one . ' but the others persuaded her to go in , and her father was just going in after her , when up sprung on the deck a little man only seven inches high , and ordered him to stand back . well , all the men put their hands to their swords ; and if the same swords were only playthings , they were n't able to draw them , for all strength that was left their arms . seven inches loosened the silver chain that fastened the boat , and pushed away , and after grinning at the four men , says he to them . ' bid your daughters and your brides farewell for awhile . you , ' says he to the youngest , ' need n't fear , you 'll recover your princess all in good time , and you and she will be as happy as the day is long . bad people , if they were rolling stark naked in gold , would not be rich . good - bye . ' away they sailed , and the ladies stretched out their hands , but were n't able to say a word . well , they were n't crossing the lake while a cat would be lickin ' her ear , and the poor men could n't stir hand or foot to follow them . they saw seven inches handing the three princesses out of the boat , and letting them down by a basket into a draw - well , but king nor princes ever saw an opening before in the same place . when the last lady was out of sight , the men found the strength in their arms and legs again . round the lake they ran , and never drew rein till they came to the well and windlass ; and there was the silk rope rolled on the axle , and the nice white basket hanging to it . ' let me down , ' says the youngest prince . ' i 'll die or recover them again . ' ' no , ' says the second daughter 's sweetheart , ' it is my turn first . ' and says the other , ' i am the eldest . ' so they gave way to him , and in he got into the basket , and down they let him . first they lost sight of him , and then , after winding off a hundred perches of the silk rope , it slackened , and they stopped turning . they waited two hours , and then they went to dinner , because there was no pull made at the rope . 