" brothers , " he said , " i have invited you to partake with me of the offerings made by the mortals on earth , which have been brought by our relation , " pointing to wassamo . " brothers , you see their wishes and desires plainly set forth here , " laying his hand upon the figured moose - skins . " the offering is worthy of our consideration . brothers , i see nothing on my part to hinder our granting their requests ; they do not appear to be unreasonable . brothers , the offer is gratifying . it is tobacco -- an article which we have lacked until we scarcely knew how to use our pipes . shall we grant their requests ? one thing more i would say . brothers , it is this : there is my son - in law ; he is mortal . i wish to detain him with me , and it is with us jointly to make him one of us . " " hoke ! hoke ! " ran through the whole company of spirits , and " hoke ! hoke ! " they cried again . and it was understood that the petitioners were to have all they asked , and that wassamo was thenceforward fairly accepted as a member of the great family of spirits . as a wedding - gift , the old spirit asked his son - in - law to make one request , which should be promptly granted . " let there be no sand - squalls among my father 's people for three months to come , " said wassamo . " so shall it be , " answered the old sand - spirit . the tobacco was now divided in equal shares among the company . they filled their pipes -- and huge pipes they were -- and such clouds they blew , that they rushed forth out of the lodge and brought on night , in all the country round about , several hours before its time . after a while passed in silence , the spirits rose up , and bearing off their tobacco - sacks , they went smoking through the country , and losing themselves in their own fog , till a late hour in the morning , when all of their pipes being burned out , each departed on his own business . the very next day the old sand - spirit , who was very much pleased with the turn affairs had taken at his entertainment , addressed wassamo : " son - in - law , i have made up my mind to allow you another holiday as an acknowledgment of the handsome manner in which you acquitted yourself of your embassy . you may visit your parents and relatives once more , to tell them that their wishes are granted , and to take your leave of them forever . you can never , after , visit them again . " wassamo at once set out , reached his people , and was heartily welcomed . they asked for his wife , and wassamo informed them that she had tarried at home to look after a son , a fine little sand - spirit , who had been born to them since his return . having delivered all of his messages and passed a happy time , wassamo said , " i must now bid you all farewell forever . " 