when onwee swung around , with the great force and weight of the club with which he had dispatched the brother of the two wicked women , he found himself in a large village , surrounded by a great crowd of people . at the door of a beautiful lodge stood his sister , smiling , and ready to invite him in . onwee entered , and hanging up his war - club and the enchanted moccasins , which he had recovered , he rested from his labors , and smoked his evening pipe , with the admiration and approval of the whole world . with one exception only , onwee bahmondang had the hearty praises of all the people . now it happened that there lived in this same village an envious and boastful fellow , who had been once a chief , but coming home always badly whipped , he was put out of office , and now spent his time about the place mainly , in proclaiming certain great things which he had in his eye , and which he meant to do - one of these days . this man 's name was ko - ko , the owl ; and hearing much of the wonderful achievements of the wearer of the ball , ko - ko put on a big look , and announced that he was going to do something extraordinary himself . onwee bahmondang , he said , had not half done his work , and he , ko - ko , meant to go on the ground and finish it up as it should be . he began by procuring an oak ball , which he thrust down his back , and , confident in its magical powers , he , too , called himself the wearer of the ball . in fact it was the self - same ball that onwee had employed , except that the magic had entirely gone out of it . coming by night in the shadow of the lodge , he thrust his arm in at the door , and stealthily possessed himself of the enchanted moccasins . he would have taken away onwee 's war - club too , if he could have carried it ; but although he was twice the size and girth of onwee , he had not the strength to lift it ; so he borrowed a club from an old chief , who was purblind , and mistook ko - ko for his brother who was a brave man ; and raising a terrible tumult with his voice , and a great dust with his heels , ko - ko set out . he had traveled all day , when he came to a small wigwam , and on looking into it , he discovered a very old woman sitting alone by the fire ; just as onwee had before . 