maidwa thought that the old man did not know that he was standing near the door . in this he was mistaken . without turning his eyes to look at him , the old man said , " walk in , my grandchild . take a seat opposite to me , and take off your things and dry them , for you must be fatigued . i will prepare you something to eat , and you shall have something very delicate . " maidwa accepted this kind invitation , and entered the lodge . the old man then remarked , as if in mere course of conversation : " my kettle with water stands near the fire . " immediately a small earthen pot with legs appeared by the fire . he then took one grain of corn , also one of whortleberry , and put them in the pot . maidwa was very hungry , and seeing the limited scale of the old man 's housekeeping , he thought his chance for a supper was very slight . the old man had promised him something very delicate , and he seemed likely to keep his word . maidwa looked on silently , and did not change his face any more than if the greatest banquet that was ever spread had been going forward . the pot soon boiled , when the old man said in a very quiet way : " the pot will stand at a distance from the fire . " it removed itself , and the old man added to maidwa : " my grandchild , feed yourself ; " handing him at the same time a dish and ladle of the same ware as the pot itself . the young man , whose hunger was very great , helped himself to all that was in the pot . he felt ashamed to think that he had done so , but before he could speak the old man said : " eat , nay grandchild . eat , eat ! " and soon after he again said--"help yourself from the pot . " maidwa was surprised , on dipping in his ladle , to see that it was full . although he emptied it a second time , it was still again filled and refilled till his hunger was entirely satisfied . the old man then observed , without raising his voice : " the pot will return to its corner ; " and the pot took itself off to its accustomed place in an out - of - the - way corner of the lodge . maidwa observed that the old man was about to address him , and took an attitude which showed that he was prepared to listen . " keep on , my grandchild , " said the old man . " you will surely gain that you seek . to tell you more i am not permitted , but go on as you have begun and you will not be disappointed . to - morrow you will again reach one of my fellow old men , but the one you will see after him will tell you all , and the manner in which you must proceed to accomplish your journey . often has this red swan passed , and those who have followed it have never returned . you must be firm in your resolution , and be prepared for all that may happen . " " so will it be , " answered maidwa ; and they both laid down to sleep . early in the morning the old man ordered his magic kettle to prepare breakfast , so that his guest might eat before leaving . as maidwa passed out , the old man gave him a blessing with his parting advice . maidwa set forth in better spirits than at any time since he had started . night again found him in company with an old man who entertained him kindly , with a frisky little kettle which hurried up to the fire before it was spoken to , bustled about and set his supper briskly before maidwa , and frisked away again , without waiting for orders . the old man also carefully directed him on his way in the morning . 