ko - ko of course bethought him of the bones , for that was just what , as he knew , had occurred to onwee bahmondang under the like circumstances . he had the bones in his bosom ; and now it was necessary for him to be a squirrel . he immediately called on several guardian spirits whom he knew of by name , and requested them to convert him into a squirrel . but not one of all them seemed to pay the slightest attention to his request ; for there he hung , the same heavy - limbed , big - headed , be - clubbed , and be - blanketed ko - ko as ever . he then desired that they would turn him into an opossum ; an application which met with the same luck as the previous one . after this he petitioned to be a wolf , a gophir , a dog , or a bear - if they would be so obliging . the guardian spirits were either all deaf , or indifferent to his wishes , or absent on some other business . ko - ko , in spite of all his begging and supplication and beseeching , was obliged to be still ko - ko . " the bones , however , " he said , to himself , " are good . i shall get a nice rest , at any rate , if i am forced to climb as i am . " with this he drew out one of the bones from his bosom , and shouting aloud , " ho ! ho ! who is there ? " he thrust it into the trunk of the tree , and would have indulged himself in a rest ; but being no more than a common fish - bone , without the slightest savor of magic in it , it snapped with ko - ko , who came tumbling down , with the door of the lodge which he had shaken loose , rattling after him . " ho ! ho ! who is there ? " cried the wicked father , making his appearance at the opening and looking down . " it is i , onwee bahmondang ! " cried ko - koor , thinking to frighten the wicked father . " ah ! it is you , is it ? i will be there presently , " called the old man . " do not be in haste to go away ! " ko - ko , observing that the old man was in earnest , scrambled up from the ground , and set off promptly at his highest rate of speed . when he looked back and saw that the wicked father was gaining upon him , ko - koor mounted a tree , as had onwee bahmondang before , and fired off a number of arrows , but as they were no more than common arrows , he got nothing by it , but was obliged to descend , and run again for life . as he hurried on he encountered the skeleton of a moose , into which he would have transformed himself , but not having the slightest confidence in any one of all the guardians who should have helped him , he passed on . the wicked father was hot in pursuit , and ko - koor was suffering terribly for lack of wind , when luckily he remembered the enchanted moccasins . he could not send them to the end of the earth , as had onwee bahmondang . 