it was a charming place to lie upon , and he fell asleep . while sleeping , the sun beat so hot upon him that it not only singed his bird - skin coat , but it so shrivelled and shrunk and tightened it upon the little boy 's body , as to wake him up . when he felt how the sun had seared and the mischief its fiery beams had played with the coat he was so proud of , he flew into a great passion , and berated the sun in a terrible way for a little boy no higher than a man 's knee . he vowed fearful things against it . " do not think you are too high , " said he ; " i shall revenge myself . oh , sun ! i will have you for a plaything yet . " on coming home he gave an account of his misfortune to his sister , and bitterly bewailed the spoiling of his new coat . he would not eat - not so much as a single berry . he lay down as one that fasts ; nor did he move nor change his manner of lying for ten full days , though his sister strove to prevail on him to rise . at the end of ten days he turned over , and then he lay full ten days on the other side . when he got up he was very pale , but very resolute too . he bade his sister make a snare , for , he informed her , that he meant to catch the sun . she said she had nothing . but after awhile she brought forward a deer 's sinew which the father had left , and which she soon made into a string suitable for a noose . the moment she showed it to him he was quite angry , and told her that would not do , and directed her to find something else . she said she had nothing - nothing at all . at last she thought of the bird - skin that was left over when the coat was made ; and this she wrought into a string . with this the little boy was more vexed than before . " the sun has had enough of my bird - skins , " he said ; " find something else . " she went out of the lodge saying to herself , " was there ever so obstinate a boy ? " she did not dare to answer this time that she had nothing . luckily she thought of her own beautiful hair , and pulling some of it from among her locks , she quickly braided it into a cord . upon returning , she handed it to her brother . 