well , when the princess woke in the morning , she missed her husband from her side , and spent the day very sadly . but as soon as the lamps were lighted in the grand hall , where she was sitting on a sofa covered with silk , the folding doors flew open , and he was sitting by her side the next minute . so they spent another happy evening , but he warned her that whenever she began to tire of him , or ceased to have faith in him , they would be parted for ever , and he 'd be obliged to marry the witch 's daughter . she got used to find him absent by day , and they spent a happy twelvemonth together , and at last a beautiful little boy was born ; and happy as she was before , she was twice as happy now , for she had her child to keep her company in the day when she could n't see her husband . at last , one evening , when herself , and himself , and her child were sitting with a window open because it was a sultry night , in flew an eagle , took the infant 's sash in his beak , and flew up in the air with him . she screamed , and was going to throw herself out the window after him , but the prince caught her , and looked at her very seriously . she bethought of what he said soon after their marriage , and she stopped the cries and complaints that were on her tongue . she spent her days very lonely for another twelvemonth , when a beautiful little girl was sent to her . then she thought to herself she 'd have a sharp eye about her this time ; so she never would allow a window to be more than a few inches open . but all her care was in vain . another evening , when they were all so happy , and the prince dandling the baby , a beautiful greyhound stood before them , took the child out of the father 's hand , and was out of the door before you could wink . this time she shouted and ran out of the room , but there were some of the servants in the next room , and all declared that neither child nor dog passed out . she felt , somehow , as if it was her husband 's fault , but still she kept command over herself , and did n't once reproach him . when the third child was born she would hardly allow a window or a door to be left open for a moment ; but she was n't the nearer to keep the child to herself . they were sitting one evening by the fire , when a lady appeared standing by them . the princess opened her eyes in a great fright and stared at her , and while she was doing so , the lady wrapped a shawl round the baby that was sitting in its father 's lap , and either sank through the ground with it or went up through the wide chimney . this time the mother kept her bed for a month . 