when the bundle was laid before him , maidwa opened one of the bags which had been given to him . it was filled with various costly articles -- wampum , robes , and trinkets , of much richness and value ; these , in token of his kindness , he presented to the chief . the chief 's daughter stole a glance at the costly gifts , then at maidwa and his beautiful wife . she stopped working , and was silent and thoughtful all the evening . the chief himself talked with maidwa of his adventures , congratulated him on his good fortune , and concluded by telling him that he should take his daughter along with him in the morning . maidwa said " yes . " the chief then spoke up , saying , " daughter , be ready to go with him in the morning . " now it happened when the chief was thus speaking that there was a foolish fellow in the lodge , who had thought to have got this chief 's daughter for a wife ; and he jumped up , saying : " who is he , " looking grimly at maidwa , " that he should take her for a few presents ? i will kill him . " and he raised a knife which he had in his hand , and gave it a mighty flourish in the air . he kept up this terrible flourish till some one came and pulled him back to his seat , which he had been waiting for , and then he sat quiet enough . amid the greetings of their new friends , maidwa and the red swan , with the chief 's daughter , took their leave by peep of day , and toward evening they reached the other town . the watchman gave the signal , and numbers of men , women and children stood out to see them . they were again shown into the chief 's lodge , who welcomed him , saying : " son - in - law , you are welcome . " and he requested maidwa to take a seat by his daughter , and the two women did the same . after suitable refreshment for all , and while maidwa smoked a pipe , the chief asked him to relate his adventures in the hearing of all the inmates of the lodge , and of the strangers who had gathered in at report of his singular fortunes . maidwa gave them his whole story . when he came to those parts which related to the red swan , they turned and looked upon her in wonder and admiration , for she was very beautiful . the chief then informed maidwa that his brothers had been to their town in search of him , but that they had gone back some time before , having given up all hopes of ever seeing him again . he added , that since he had shown himself a man of spirit , whom fortune was pleased to befriend , he should take his daughter with him . " for although your brothers , " he said , " were here , they were too bashful to enter any of our lodges . they merely inquired for you and returned . you will take my daughter , treat her well , and that will bind us more closely together . " it is always the case in an assembly or gathering that some one of the number is foolish , and disposed to play the clown . it happened to be so here . one of this very sort was in the lodge , and , after maidwa had given the old chief presents , as he had to the other , this pretender jumped up in a passion , and cried out : " who is this stranger , that he should have her ? i want her myself . " the chief bade him be quiet , and not to disturb or quarrel with one who was enjoying their hospitality . " no , no , " he exclaimed , rushing forward as in act to strike . maidwa sat unmoved , and paid no heed to his threats . he cried the louder--"i will have her , i will have her ! " whereupon the old chief , being now vexed past patience , took his great war - club and tapped this clownish fellow upon the head , which so far subdued him that he sat for some time quite still ; when , after a while , he came to himself , the chief upbraided him for his folly , and told him to go out and tell stories to the old women . 