for some hours all went well ; and in the heat of the chase the young men forgot their fears . then suddenly both of them reined in their steeds and sat gazing in front of them with affrighted faces . for a horseman had crossed their track , and they both would fain have known who he was and whence he came . " by my troth , but he rideth in haste , whoever he may be , " said earl gregory at last , " and though i always thought that no steed on earth could match mine for swiftness , i reckon that for every league that mine goeth , his would go seven . let us follow him , and see from what part of the world he cometh . " " the lord forbid that thou shouldst stir thy horse 's feet to follow him , " said earl st . clair devoutly . " why , man , it is the elfin knight ! canst thou not see that he doth not ride on the solid ground , but flieth through the air , and that , although he rideth on what seemeth a mortal steed , he is really craried by mighty pinions , which cleave the air like those of a bird ? follow him forsooth ! it will be an evil day for thee when thou seekest to do that . " but earl st . clair forgot that he carried a talisman which his companion lacked , that enabled him to see things as they really were , while the other 's eyes were holden , and he was startled and amazed when earl gregory said sharply , " thy mind hath gone mad over this elfin king . i tell thee he who passed was a goodly knight , clad in a green vesture , and riding on a great black jennet . and because i love a gallant horseman , and would fain learn his name and degree , i will follow him till i find him , even if it be at the world 's end . " and without another word he put spurs to his horse and galloped off in the direction which the mysterious stranger had taken , leaving earl st . clair alone upon the moorland , his fingers touching the sacred sign and his trembling lips muttering prayers for protection . for he knew that his friend had been bewitched , and he made up his mind , brave gentleman that he was , that he would follow him to the world 's end , if need be , and try to deliver him from the spell that had been cast over him . 