wassamo felt himself moved , he knew not how , and placed upon a couch . some time after , the spell seemed to be a little lightened , and on opening his eyes , he was surprised to find that he was lying in a spacious and shining lodge , extending as far as the eye could reach . one spoke to him and said : " stranger , awake , and take something wherewith to refresh yourself . " he obeyed the command and sat up . on either side of the lodge he beheld rows of people seated in orderly array . at a distance he could see two stately persons , who looked rather more in years than the others , and who appeared to exact obedience from all around them . one of them , whom he heard addressed as the old spirit - man , spoke to wassamo . " my son , " said he , " know it was those foolish girls who brought you hither . they saw you at the fishing - ground . when you attempted to approach them you fell senseless , and at the same moment they transported you to this place . we are under the earth . but be at ease . we will make your stay with us pleasant . i am the guardian spirit of the sand mountains . they are my charge . i pile them up , and blow them about , and do whatever i will with them . it keeps me very busy , but i am hale for my age , and i love to be employed . i have often wished to get one of your race to marry among us . if you can make up your mind to remain , i will give you one of my daughters -- the one who smiled on you first , the night you were brought away from your parents and friends . " wassamo dropped his head and made no answer . the thought that he should behold his kindred no more , made him sad . he was silent , and the old spirit continued : " your wants will all be supplied ; but you must be careful not to stray far from the lodge . i am afraid of that spirit who rules all islands lying in the lakes . he is my bitter enemy , for i have refused him my daughter in marriage ; and when he learns that you are a member of my family , he will seek to harm you . there is my daughter , " added the old spirit , pointing toward her . " take her . she shall be your wife . " forthwith wassamo and the old spirit 's daughter sat near each other in the lodge , and they were man and wife . one evening the old spirit came in after a busy day 's work out among the sand - hills , in the course of which he had blown them all out of shape with great gusts of wind , and strewn them about in a thousand directions , and brought them back and piled them up in all sorts of misshapen heaps . 