the father coming in the evening to visit the lodge of his daughters , discovered what had happened . he immediately sent word to his son that his sisters had been slain , and that there were no more spoils to be had , which greatly inflamed the young man 's temper , especially the woeful announcement at the close . " the person who has done this , " said the brother , as soon as he had reached the spot , chafing and half beside himself at the gloomy prospect of having no more travelers to strip , " must be that boy who carries the ball on his back . i know his mode of going about his business , and since he would not allow himself to be killed by my sisters , he shall have the honor of dying by my hand . i will pursue him and have revenge . " " it is well , my son , " replied the father ; " the spirit of your life grant you success . i counsel you to be wary in the pursuit . bahmondang is a cunning youth . it is a strong spirit who has put him on to do this injury to us , and he will try to deceive you in every way . above all , avoid tasting food till you succeed ; for if you break your fast before you see his blood , your power will be destroyed . " the son took this fatherly advice all in good part , except that portion which enjoined upon him to abstain from staying his stomach ; but over that he made a number of wry faces , for the brother of the two wicked sisters had , among numerous noble gifts , a very noble appetite . nevertheless , he took up his weapons and departed in pursuit of onwee bahmondang , at the top of his speed . onwee finding that he was closely followed , climbed up into one of the tallest trees , and shot forth the magic arrows with which he had provided himself . seeing that his pursuer was not turned back by his arrows , onwee renewed his flight ; and when he found himself hard pressed , and his enemy close behind him , he transformed himself into the skeleton of a moose that had been killed , whose flesh had come off from his bones . he then remembered the moccasins which his sister had given him , and which were enchanted . taking a pair of them , he placed them near the skeleton . he retraced his steps toward the skeleton , but to his surprise it had disappeared , and the tracks of the wearer of the ball were in another direction . he now became faint with hunger , and lost heart ; but when he remembered the blood of his sisters , and that he should not be allowed to enjoy a meal , nor so much as a mouthful , until he had put an end to onwee bahmondang , he plucked up his spirits and determined again to pursue . onwee , finding that he was closely followed , and that the hungry brother was approaching very fast , changed himself into a very old man , with two daughters , and living in a large lodge in the center of a beautiful garden , which was filled with every thing that could delight the eye , or was pleasant to the taste . he made himself appear so very old as to be unable to leave his lodge , and to require his daughters to bring him food and wait on him , as though he had been a mere child . the garden also had the appearance of old age , with its ancient bushes and hanging branches and decrepit vines loitering lazily about in the sun . 