" i 'm not asking anything at all except the loan of the sword that 's under your bed , " says he . " i give it to you , and welcome , " says the giant . he went in , and brought out the sword with him . " try it on the three biggest trees that are in the wood , and you wo n't feel it in your hand going through them , " says the giant . " i do n't see any tree in the wood bigger or uglier than yourself , " says he , drawing the sword and whipping the head off him , so that he sent it seven furrows and seven ridges with that stroke . " if i were to get on the body again , " said the head , and it talking , " and the men of the world would n't get me off the trunk again . " " i 'll take good care myself of that , " says the lad . when he drove the cows home in the evening , they had that much milk that they had not half enough of vessels , and two coopers were obliged to make new vessels to hold the quantity of milk they had . " you 're the best lad that ever i met , " says the gentleman , and he was thankful to him . the giants used to put -- each man of them -- a shout of him every evening . the people only heard two shouts that evening . " there 's some change in the caher[2 ] to - night , " said the gentleman , when he heard the two shouts . " oh , " says the lad , " i saw one of them going away by himself to - day , and he did not come home yet . " on the next day the lad drove out his cattle until he came to the big stone wall , and he threw a gap in it , and let the cattle into the same place . he went up into a tree and began throwing down the apples . the second giant came running , and said , " what 's the meaning of throwing my wall and letting in your cattle on my estate ? get down out of that at once . you killed my brother yesterday . " " go down , black thong , and bind that one , " says the lad . the thong squeezed him so that he was not able to put a stir out of himself , and he promised the lad anything at all -- only to spare his life . " i am asking nothing of you but the loan of the old sword that is under your bed . " " i 'll give you that , and welcome . " he went in , and brought out the sword with him . each man of them had a sword , and every sword better than another . " try that sword on the six biggest trees that are in the wood , and it will go through them without turning the edge . " " i do n't see any tree in the wood bigger or uglier than yourself , " says he , drawing the sword and whipping the head off him , so that he sent it seven furrows and seven ridges from the body . " oh , " said the head , " if i were to get going on the body again , and the men of the world would n't get me off it again . " " oh , i 'll take care of that myself , " says the boy . when he drove the cows home that night there was wonder on the people when they saw the quantity of milk they had . the gentleman said that there was another change in the caher that day again , as he did not hear but only one shout , but the lad said that he saw another one going away that day , and that it was likely that he did not come back yet . on the next day he went out , and drove the pigs and the cows up to the hall door , and was throwing down the apples to them . the third giant came out -- the eldest man of them -- and he was full mad after his two brothers being dead , and the teeth that were in his head were making a hand - stick for him . he told the boy to come down ; that he did not know what he would do to him after his having killed his two brothers . " come down , " says he , " till i draw you under my long , cold teeth " ; and it was on him the long , cold teeth were , and no lie . " go down , black thong , and bind that one till the eyes will be going out on his head with the power of the squeezing that you 'll give him . " 