there was a man in it long ago , and long ago it was , and if he was in it then he would not be in it now . he was married , and his wife was lost ( i.e. , died ) , and he had only one son by the first wife . then he married the second wife . this second wife had not much regard for the son , and he was obliged to go out on the mountain , far from the house , to take care of the cattle . there was a bracket ( speckled ) bull amongst the cows out on the mountain , and of a day that there was great hunger on the lad , the bracket bull heard him complaining and wringing his two hands . he moved over to him and said to him , " you are hungry , but take the horn off me and lay it on the ground . put your hand into the place where the horn was and you will find food . " when he heard that he went over to the bull , took hold of the horn , twisted it , and it came away with him in his hand . he laid it on the ground , put in his hand , and drew out food and drink and a table - cloth . he spread the table - cloth on the ground , set the food and drink on it , and then he ate and drank his enough . when he had his enough eaten and drunk , he put the table - cloth back again , and left the horn back in the place where it was before . when he came home that evening he did not eat a bit of his supper , and his stepmother said to herself that he ( must have ) got something to eat out on the mountain since he was not eating any of his supper . when he went out with his cattle the next day his stepmother sent her own daughter out after him , and told her to be watching him till she should see where he was getting the food . the daughter went and put herself in hiding , and she was watching him until the heat of the day came . but when the middle of the day was come she heard every music more excellent than another , and she was put to sleep by that truly melodious music . the bull came then , and the lad twisted the horn off him and drew out the table - cloth , the food , and the drink , and ate and drunk his enough . he put back the horn again then . the music was stopped and the daughter woke up , and was watching him until the evening came , and he drove the cows home then . the mother asked her did she see anything in the field , and she said that she did not . the lad did not eat two bites of his supper , and there was wonder on the stepmother . the next day when he drove out the cows the stepmother told the second daughter to follow him , and to be watching him till she would see where he was getting things to eat . the daughter followed him and put herself in hiding , but when the heat of the day came the music began and she fell asleep . the lad took the horn off the bull , drew out the table - cloth , the food , and drink , ate and drank his enough , and put back the horn again . the girl woke then , and was watching him until the evening . when the evening came he drove the cows home , and he was not able to eat his supper any more than the two evenings before . the stepmother asked the daughter did she see anything , and she said she did not . there was wonder on the stepmother . 