when he got up he was very pale , but very resolute too . he bade his sister make a snare , for , he informed her , that he meant to catch the sun . she said she had nothing . but after awhile she brought forward a deer 's sinew which the father had left , and which she soon made into a string suitable for a noose . the moment she showed it to him he was quite angry , and told her that would not do , and directed her to find something else . she said she had nothing - nothing at all . at last she thought of the bird - skin that was left over when the coat was made ; and this she wrought into a string . with this the little boy was more vexed than before . " the sun has had enough of my bird - skins , " he said ; " find something else . " she went out of the lodge saying to herself , " was there ever so obstinate a boy ? " she did not dare to answer this time that she had nothing . luckily she thought of her own beautiful hair , and pulling some of it from among her locks , she quickly braided it into a cord . upon returning , she handed it to her brother . the moment his eye fell upon this jet black braid he was delighted . " this will do , " he said . he immediately began to run it back and forth through his hands as swiftly as he could . as he drew it forth , he tried its strength . he said again , " this will do ; " and winding it in a glossy coil about his shoulders , he set out a little after midnight . his object was to catch the sun before he rose . he fixed his snare firmly on a spot just where the sun must strike the land as it rose above the earth . sure enough , he caught the sun , so that it was held fast in the cord and did not rise . the animals who ruled the earth were immediately put into great commotion . they had no light . they ran to and fro , calling out to each other , and inquiring what had happened . they summoned a council to debate upon the matter , and an old dormouse , suspecting where the trouble lay , proposed that some one should be appointed to go and cut the cord . this was a bold thing to undertake , as the rays of the sun could not fail to burn whoever should venture so near to them . 