maidwa 's pack for traveling was now ready , and he was taking his farewell smoke , when the young magician thus addressed him : " my friend maidwa , you know for what cause you came thus far , and why you have risked so much and waited so long . you have proved my friend indeed . you have accomplished your object , and your noble perseverance shall not go unrewarded . if you undertake other things with the same spirit , you will always succeed . my destiny compels me to remain where i am , although i should feel happy to be allowed to go with you . i have given you , of ordinary gifts , all you will need as long as you live ; but i see you are backward to speak of the red swan . i vowed that whoever procured me my lost wampum - scalp should be rewarded by possessing the red swan . " he then spoke in a language which maidwa did not understand , the curtain of the lodge parted , and the red swan met his gaze . it was a beautiful female that he beheld , so majestical and airy in her look , that he seemed to see a creature whose home should rather be in the free heaven , and among the rosy clouds , than in this dusky lodge . " take her , " the young magician said ; " she is my sister ; treat her well . she is worthy of you , and what you have done for me merits more . she is ready to go with you to your kindred and friends , and has been so ever since your arrival ; and my good wishes shall go with you both . " the red swan smiled kindly on maidwa , who advanced and greeted her . hand in hand they took their way forth from the lodge , and , watched by the young magician , advanced across the prairie on their homeward course . they traveled slowly , and looked with double joy on the beautiful country over which they had both so lately passed with hearts ill at ease . after two or three days they reached the lodge of the third old man who had entertained him with the singing kettle ; but the kettle was not there . the old man , nevertheless , received them very kindly , and said to maidwa , " you see what your perseverance has secured you ; do so always , and you will succeed in whatever you undertake . " on the following morning , when they were about to start , he pulled from the side of the lodge a bag , which he presented to maidwa , saying , " grandchild , i give you this ; it contains a present for you ; and i hope you will live happily till old age . " bidding him farewell , they again set forward ; and they soon came to the second old man 's lodge ; he also gave them a present and bestowed his blessing . nor did maidwa see any thing here of the frisky little kettle which had been so lively on his former visit . 