an old man was sitting alone in his lodge by the side of a frozen stream . it was the close of winter , and his fire was almost out . he appeared very old and very desolate . his locks were white with age , and he trembled in every joint . day after day passed in solitude , and he heard nothing but the sounds of the tempest , sweeping before it the new - fallen snow . one day as his fire was just dying , a handsome young man approached and entered his dwelling . his cheeks were red with the blood of youth ; his eyes sparkled with life , and a smile played upon his lips . he walked with a light and quick step . his forehead was bound with a wreath of sweet grass , in place of the warrior 's frontlet , and he carried a bunch of flowers in his hand . " ah ! my son , " said the old man , " i am happy to see you . come in . come , tell me of your adventures , and what strange lands you have been to see . let us pass the night together . i will tell you of my prowess and exploits , and what i can perform . you shall do the same , and we will amuse ourselves . " he then drew from his sack a curiously - wrought antique pipe , and having filled it with tobacco , rendered mild by an admixture of certain dried leaves , he handed it to his guest . when this ceremony was attended to , they began to speak . " i blow my breath , " said the old man , " and the streams stand still . the water becomes stiff and hard as clear stone . " " i breathe , " said the young man , " and flowers spring up all over the plains . " " i shake my locks , " retorted the old man , " and snow covers the land . the leaves fall from the trees at my command , and my breath blows them away . the birds rise from the water and fly to a distant land . the animals hide themselves from the glance of my eye , and the very ground where i walk becomes as hard as flint . " " i shake my ringlets , " rejoined the young man , " and warm showers of soft rain fall upon the earth . the plants lift up their heads out of the ground like the eyes of children glistening with delight . my voice recalls the birds . the warmth of my breath unlocks the streams . music fills the groves wherever i walk , and all nature welcomes my approach . " 