there lived a hunter in the north , who had a wife and one child . his lodge stood far off in the forest , several days ' journey from any other . he spent his days in hunting , and his evenings in relating to his wife the incidents that had befallen him . as game was very abundant , he found no difficulty in killing as much as they wanted . just in all his acts , he lived a peaceful and happy life . one evening during the winter season , it chanced that he remained out longer than usual , and his wife began to fear that some accident had befallen him . it was already dark . she listened attentively , and at last heard the sound of approaching footsteps . not doubting that it was her husband , she went to the door and beheld two strange females . she bade them enter , and invited them to remain . she observed that they were total strangers in the country . there was something so peculiar in their looks , air and manner , that she was disturbed by their presence . they would not come near to the fire . they sat in a remote part of the lodge , shy and taciturn , and drew their garments about them in such a manner as nearly to hide their faces . so far as she could judge , they were pale , hollow - eyed , and long - visaged , very thin and emaciated . there was but little light in the lodge , as the fire was low , and its fitful flashes , by disclosing their white faces and then dropping them in sudden darkness , served rather to increase than to dispel her fears . " merciful spirit ! " cried a voice from the opposite part of the lodge ; " there are two corpses clothed with garments ! " the hunter 's wife turned around , but seeing nobody save her little child , staring across from under his blanket , she said to herself , " the boy can not speak ; the sounds were but the gusts of wind . " she trembled , and was ready to sink to the earth . her husband at this moment entered , and in some measure relieved her alarm . he threw down the carcass of a large fat deer . " behold what a fine and fat animal ! " cried the mysterious females ; and they immediately ran and pulled off pieces of the whitest fat , which they greedily devoured . 