the winter was nearly passed away , when , one evening , the hunter was abroad later than usual . the moment he came in and laid down his day 's hunt , as was his custom , before his wife , the two females seized upon the deer and began to tear off the fat in so unceremonious a way that her anger was excited . she constrained herself , however , in a good degree , but she could not conceal her feelings , though she said but little . the strange guests observed the state of her mind , and they became uneasy , and withdrew further still into the remote gloom of the lodge . the good hunter saw the eclipse that was darkening the quiet of his lodge , and carefully inquired of its cause ; but his wife denied having used any words of complaining or reproach . they retired to their couches , and the hunter tried to compose himself to sleep , but could not , for the sighs and sobs of the two females were incessant . he arose on his couch and addressed them as follows : " tell me , " said he , " what is it that gives you pain of mind and causes you to bemoan your presence here . has my wife given you offense , or trespassed upon the rights of hospitality ? " they replied in the negative . " we have been treated by you with kindness and affection . it is not for any slight we have received that we weep . our mission is not to you only . we come from the other land to test mankind , and to try the sincerity of the living . often we have heard the bereaved by death say that if the lost could be restored , they would devote their lives to make them happy . we have been moved by the bitter lamentations which have reached the place of the departed , and have come to make proof of the sincerity of those who have lost friends . we are your two dead sisters . three moons were allotted us by the master of life to make the trial . more than half the time had been successfully passed , when the angry feelings of your wife indicated the irksomeness you felt at our presence , and has made us resolve on our departure . " they continued to talk to the hunter and his wife , gave them instructions as to a future life , and pronounced a blessing upon them . 