the third day the prince went by , and stopped to talk with the strange woman . he asked her could he do anything to serve her , and she said he might . she asked him did he ever wake at night . he said that he often did , but that during the last two nights he was listening to a sweet song in his dreams , and could not wake , and that the voice was one that he must have known and loved in some other world long ago . says she , ' did you drink any sleepy posset either of these evenings before you went to bed ? ' ' i did , ' said he . ' the two evenings my wife gave me something to drink , but i do n't know whether it was a sleepy posset or not . ' ' well , prince , ' said she , ' as you say you would wish to oblige me , you can do it by not tasting any drink to - night . ' ' i will not , ' says he , and then he went on his walk . well , the great lady came soon after the prince , and found the stranger using her hand - reel and winding threads of gold off it , and the third bargain was made . that evening the prince was lying on his bed at twilight , and his mind much disturbed ; and the door opened , and in his princess walked , and down she sat by his bedside and sung : four long years i was married to thee ; three sweet babes i bore to thee ; brown bear of norway , turn to me . ' brown bear of norway ! ' said he . ' i do n't understand you . ' ' do n't you remember , prince , that i was your wedded wife for four years ? ' ' i do not , ' said he , ' but i 'm sure i wish it was so . ' ' do n't you remember our three babes that are still alive ? ' ' show me them . my mind is all a heap of confusion . ' ' look for the half of our marriage ring , that hangs at your neck , and fit it to this . ' he did so , and the same moment the charm was broken . his full memory came back on him , and he flung his arms round his wife 's neck , and both burst into tears . well , there was a great cry outside , and the castle walls were heard splitting and cracking . everyone in the castle was alarmed , and made their way out . the prince and princess went with the rest , and by the time all were safe on the lawn , down came the building , and made the ground tremble for miles round . no one ever saw the witch and her daughter afterwards . it was not long till the prince and princess had their children with them , and then they set out for their own palace . the kings of ireland and of munster and ulster , and their wives , soon came to visit them , and may every one that deserves it be as happy as the brown bear of norway and his family . 