" my business , " says tom , says he , " is to make the beautiful princess , god bless her , laugh three times . " " do you see all them merry fellows and skilful swordsmen , " says the other , " that could eat you up with a grain of salt , and not a mother 's soul of them ever got a laugh from her these seven years ? " so the fellows gathered round tom , and the bad man aggravated him till he told them he did n't care a pinch of snuff for the whole bilin ' of 'em . let 'em come on , six at a time , and try what they could do . the king , that was too far off to hear what they were saying , asked what did the stranger want . " he wants , " says the red - headed fellow , " to make hares of your best men . " " oh ! " says the king , " if that 's the way , let one of 'em turn out and try his mettle . " so one stood forward , with sword and pot - lid , and made a cut at tom . he struck the fellow 's elbow with the club , and up over their heads flew the sword , and down went the owner of it on the gravel from a thump he got on the helmet . another took his place , and another , and another , and then half a dozen at once , and tom sent swords , helmets , shields , and bodies rolling over and over , and themselves bawling out that they were kilt , and disabled , and damaged , and rubbing their poor elbows and hips , and limping away . tom contrived not to kill anyone . the princess was so amused that she let a great sweet laugh out of her that was heard all over the yard . " king of dublin , " says tom , " i 've quarter of your daughter . " and the king did n't know whether he was glad or sorry , and all the blood in the princess 's heart run into her cheeks . so there was no more fighting that day , and tom was invited to dine with the royal family . next day redhead told tom of a wolf , the size of a yearling heifer , that used to be serenading ( sauntering ) about the walls , and eating people and cattle ; and said what a pleasure it would give the king to have it killed . " with all my heart , " says tom . " send a jackeen to show me where he lives , and we 'll see how he behaves to a stranger . " the princess was not well pleased , for tom looked a different person with fine clothes and a nice green birredh over his long , curly hair ; and besides , he 'd got one laugh out of her . however , the king gave his consent . in an hour and a half the horrible wolf was walking in the palace yard , and tom a step or two behind , with his club on his shoulder , just as a shepherd would be walking after a pet lamb . the king and queen and princess were safe up in their gallery , but the officers and people of the court that were padrowling about the great bawn , when they saw the big baste coming in gave themselves up , and began to make for doors and gates . the wolf licked his chops , as if he was saying , " would n't i enjoy a breakfast off a couple of yez ! " the king shouted out , " o gilla na chreck an gour , take away that terrible wolf , and you must have all my daughter . " but tom did n't mind him a bit . he pulled out his flute and began to play like vengeance . dickens a man or boy in the yard but began shovelling away heel and toe , and the wolf himself was obliged to get on his hind legs and dance tatther jack walsh along with the rest . a good deal of the people got inside and shut the doors , the way the hairy fellow would n't pin them . but tom kept playing , and the outsiders kept shouting and dancing , and the wolf kept dancing and roaring with the pain his legs were giving him : and all the time he had his eyes on redhead , who was shut out along with the rest . wherever redhead went the wolf followed , and kept one eye on him and the other on tom , to see if he would give him leave to eat him . but tom shook his head , and never stopped the tune . redhead never stopped dancing and bawling and the wolf dancing and roaring , one leg up and the other down , and he ready to drop out of his standing from fair tiresomeness . when the princess seen that there was no fear of anyone being kilt she was so divarted by the stew that redhead was in that she gave another great laugh ; and well become tom , out he cried , " king of dublin , i have two quarters of your daughter . " " oh , quarters or alls , " says the king , " put away that divel of a wolf and we 'll see about it . " so gilla put his flute in his pocket , and says he to the baste that was sittin ' on his currabingo ready to faint , " walk off to your mountains , my fine fellow , and live like a respectable baste . if ever i find you come within seven miles of any town---- " he said no more , but spit in his fist , and gave a flourish of his club . it was all the poor divel wanted . he put his tail between his legs and took to his pumps without looking at man nor mortial , and neither sun , moon , nor stars ever saw him in sight of dublin again . at dinner everyone laughed but the foxy fellow . sure enough , he was laying out how he 'd settle poor tom next day . " well , to be sure ! " says he , " king of dublin , you are in luck . there 's the danes moidhering us to no end . d---- run to lusk wid 'em ! and if anyone can save us from 'em it is this gentleman with the goat - skin . there is a flail hangin ' on the collar - beam in hell , and neither dane nor devil can stand before it . " " so , " says tom to the king , " will you let me have the other half of the princess if i bring you the flail ? " " no , no , " says the princess , " i 'd rather never be your wife than see you in that danger . " 