' how nice it is to be here ! do n't you think so too , you old fir - tree ? ' ' i 'm not at all old , ' said the tree ; ' there are many much older than i am . ' ' where do you come from ? ' asked the mice , ' and what do you know ? ' they were extremely inquisitive . ' do tell us about the most beautiful place in the world . is that where you come from ? have you been in the storeroom , where cheeses lie on the shelves , and hams hang from the ceiling , where one dances on tallow candles , and where one goes in thin and comes out fat ? ' ' i know nothing about that , ' said the tree . ' but i know the wood , where the sun shines , and the birds sing . ' and then it told them all about its young days , and the little mice had never heard anything like that before , and they listened with all their ears , and said : ' oh , how much you have seen ! how lucky you have been ! ' ' i ? ' said the fir - tree , and then it thought over what it had told them . ' yes , on the whole those were very happy times . ' but then it went on to tell them about christmas eve , when it had been adorned with sweet - meats and tapers . ' oh ! ' said the little mice , ' how lucky you have been , you old fir - tree ! ' ' i 'm not at all old ' said the tree . ' i only came from the wood this winter . i am only a little backward , perhaps , in my growth . ' ' how beautifully you tell stories ! ' said the little mice . and next evening they came with four others , who wanted to hear the tree 's story , and it told still more , for it remembered everything so clearly and thought : ' those were happy times ! but they may come again . humpty dumpty fell downstairs , and yet he married a princess ; perhaps i shall also marry a princess ! ' and then it thought of a pretty little birch - tree that grew out in the wood , and seemed to the fir - tree a real princess , and a very beautiful one too . ' who is humpty dumpty ? ' asked the little mice . and then the tree told the whole story ; it could remember every single word , and the little mice were ready to leap on to the topmost branch out of sheer joy ! 