there was no one in sight , but aggo heard the words quite plainly , and as he suspected the ditty to be the work of his enemies , the buffalos , he hopped home as fast as his one leg could carry him . meantime , the daughter had no sooner been left alone in the lodge than she thought with herself : " it is hard to be thus forever kept in doors . but my father says it would be dangerous to venture abroad . i know what i will do . i will get on the top of the house , and there i can comb and dress my hair , and no one can harm me . " she accordingly ascended the roof and busied herself in untying and combing her beautiful hair ; for it was truly beautiful , not only of a fine , glossy quality , but it was so very long that it hung over the eaves of the house and reached down on the ground , as she sat dressing it . she was wholly occupied in this employment , without a thought of danger , when , all of a sudden , the king of the buffalos came dashing on with his herd of followers , and making sure of her by means of her drooping tresses , he placed her upon the back of one of his favorite buffalos , and away he cantered over the plains . plunging into a river that bounded his land , he bore her safely to his lodge on the other side . and now the buffalo - king having secured the beautiful person of aggo dah gauda 's daughter , he set to work to make her heart his own -- a little ceremony which it would have been , perhaps , wiser for his majesty , the king of the buffalos , to have attended to before , for he now worked to little purpose . although he labored with great zeal to gain her affections , she sat pensive and disconsolate in the lodge , among the other females , and scarcely ever spoke , nor did she take the least interest in the affairs of the king 's household . to the king himself she paid no heed , and although he breathed forth to her every soft and gentle word he could think of , she sat still and motionless for all the world like one of the lowly bushes by the door of her father 's lodge , when the summer wind has died away . 