the bracket bull used to be the first one of the cattle that used to come in every night , and the stepmother sent for two butchers , and she set them on each side of the gate to kill the bracket bull when he would come . the bracket bull said to the boy , " i 'll be swept ( done for ) to - night , unless another cow goes before me . " he put another cow out before him , and the two butchers were standing on each side of the gate to kill the first one that would come in . the bull sent the cow out before him , going through the gate , and they killed her . then the stepmother got a piece of her to eat , and she thought that it was the bracket bull that she was eating , and she got better then . the next night , when the lad came home with the cattle , he ate no more of his supper than any other night , and there was wonder on the stepmother . she heard after this that the bracket bull was in it ( i.e. , alive ) all through , and that he was not killed at that time . when she heard that she killed a cock , and she let down some of its blood into her bed . she put a sup of the blood into her mouth , and she played the same trick over again , and said that there was nothing at all to cure her but a piece of the bracket bull . the butchers were sent for , and they were ready to kill the bracket bull as soon as he came in . the bracket bull sent another one of the cattle in before himself , and the butchers killed it . the woman got part of its flesh , and she thought it was part of the bracket bull she was eating , and she got better . she found out afterwards that it was not the bracket bull that was dead , and she said , " never mind ; i 'll kill the bracket bull yet ! " the next day , when the lad was herding the cows on the mountain , the bracket bull came and said to him , " take the horn off me and eat your enough now . that 's the last time for you . they are waiting to kill me to - night , but do n't you be afraid . it is not they who shall kill me , but another bull shall kill me . get up on my back now . " the lad got up on his back then and they went home . the two butchers were on each side of the gate waiting for him . the bracket bull struck a horn on each side of him , and he killed the two butchers . out with him then , and the lad on his back . he went into a wild wood , and he himself and the lad spent the night in that wood . he was to fight with the other bull on the next day . 