when night came on she was let into the palace and lay down till the prince was in such a dead sleep that all she did could n't awake him . she sung this verse to him , sighing and sobbing , and kept singing it the night long , and it was all in vain : four long years i was married to thee ; three sweet babes i bore to thee ; brown bear of norway , turn to me . at the first dawn the proud lady was in the chamber , and led her away , and the footman of the horns put out his tongue at her as she was quitting the palace . so there was no luck so far ; but the next day the prince passed by again and looked at her , and saluted her kindly , as a prince might a farmer 's daughter , and passed one ; and soon the witch 's daughter passed by , and found her combing her hair , and pearls and diamonds dropping from it . well , another bargain was made , and the princess spent another night of sorrow , and she left the castle at daybreak , and the footman was at his post and enjoyed his revenge . the third day the prince went by , and stopped to talk with the strange woman . he asked her could he do anything to serve her , and she said he might . she asked him did he ever wake at night . he said that he often did , but that during the last two nights he was listening to a sweet song in his dreams , and could not wake , and that the voice was one that he must have known and loved in some other world long ago . says she , ' did you drink any sleepy posset either of these evenings before you went to bed ? ' ' i did , ' said he . ' the two evenings my wife gave me something to drink , but i do n't know whether it was a sleepy posset or not . ' ' well , prince , ' said she , ' as you say you would wish to oblige me , you can do it by not tasting any drink to - night . ' ' i will not , ' says he , and then he went on his walk . well , the great lady came soon after the prince , and found the stranger using her hand - reel and winding threads of gold off it , and the third bargain was made . that evening the prince was lying on his bed at twilight , and his mind much disturbed ; and the door opened , and in his princess walked , and down she sat by his bedside and sung : four long years i was married to thee ; three sweet babes i bore to thee ; brown bear of norway , turn to me . 