but that very night she woke up out of her sleep in a great hall that was lighted up with a thousand lamps ; the richest carpets were on the floor , and the walls were covered with cloth of gold and silver , and the place was full of grand company , and the very beautiful prince she saw in her dreams was there , and it was n't a moment till he was on one knee before her , and telling her how much he loved her , and asking her would n't she be his queen . well , she had n't the heart to refuse him , and married they were the same evening . ' now , my darling , ' says he , when they were left by themselves , ' you must know that i am under enchantment . a sorceress , that had a beautiful daughter , wished me for her son - in - law ; but the mother got power over me , and when i refused to we d her daughter she made me take the form of a bear by day , and i was to continue so till a lady would marry me of her own free will , and endure five years of great trials after . ' well , when the princess woke in the morning , she missed her husband from her side , and spent the day very sadly . but as soon as the lamps were lighted in the grand hall , where she was sitting on a sofa covered with silk , the folding doors flew open , and he was sitting by her side the next minute . so they spent another happy evening , but he warned her that whenever she began to tire of him , or ceased to have faith in him , they would be parted for ever , and he 'd be obliged to marry the witch 's daughter . she got used to find him absent by day , and they spent a happy twelvemonth together , and at last a beautiful little boy was born ; and happy as she was before , she was twice as happy now , for she had her child to keep her company in the day when she could n't see her husband . at last , one evening , when herself , and himself , and her child were sitting with a window open because it was a sultry night , in flew an eagle , took the infant 's sash in his beak , and flew up in the air with him . she screamed , and was going to throw herself out the window after him , but the prince caught her , and looked at her very seriously . she bethought of what he said soon after their marriage , and she stopped the cries and complaints that were on her tongue . she spent her days very lonely for another twelvemonth , when a beautiful little girl was sent to her . then she thought to herself she 'd have a sharp eye about her this time ; so she never would allow a window to be more than a few inches open . 