the skull too advanced toward it , and when they looked again , lo ! they had united , and were making all haste to come up with the hunter and his two sons . they now might well be in extreme fear , for they knew not how to escape her . at this moment , one of them looked out and saw a stately crane sitting on a rock in the middle of the rapids . they called out to the bird , " see , grandfather , we are persecuted . come and take us across the falls that we may escape her . " the crane so addressed was of extraordinary size , and had arrived at a great old age , and , as might be expected , he sat , when first descried by the two sons , in a state of profound thought , revolving his long experience of life there in the midst of the most violent eddies . when he heard himself appealed to , the crane stretched forth his neck with great deliberation , and lifting himself slowly by his wings , he flew across to their assistance . " be careful , " said the old crane , " that you do not touch the crown of my head . i am bald from age and long service , and very tender at that spot . should you be so unlucky as to lay a hand upon it , i shall not be able to avoid throwing you both in the rapids . " they paid strict heed to his directions , and were soon safely landed on the other shore of the river . he returned and carried the father in the same way ; and then took his place once more where he had been first seen in the very midst of the eddies of the stream . but the woman , who had by this time reached the shore , cried out , " come , my grandfather , and carry me over , for i have lost my children , and i am sorely distressed . " the aged bird obeyed her summons , and flew to her side . he carefully repeated the warning that she was not to touch the crown of his head ; and he was so anxious that she should take it to heart , that he went over it a second and a third time , word by word . he begged her to bear in mind that she should respect his old age , if there was any sense of virtue left in her . she promised to obey ; but they were no sooner fairly embarked in the stream , than she stealthily sought to disregard the warning she had received . instantly the crane cast her into the rapids , and shook his wings as if to free himself of all acquaintance with her . 