one day the two brothers began to look dark upon maidwa , and to reproach him for having taken from the medicine - sack their deceased father 's magic arrows ; they upbraided him especially that one was lost . after listening to them in silence , he said that he would go in search of it , and that it should be restored ; and the very next day , true to his word , he left them . after traveling a long way , and looking in every direction , almost hopeless of discovering the lost treasure , he came to an opening in the earth , and descending , it led him to the abode of departed spirits . the country appeared beautiful , the pastures were greener than his own , and the sky bluer than that which hung over the lodge , and the extent of it was utterly lost in a dim distance ; and he saw animals of every kind wandering about in great numbers . the first he came to were buffalos ; his surprise was great when they addressed him as human beings . they asked him what he came for , how he had descended , and why he was so bold as to visit the abode of the dead . he answered that he was in quest of a magic arrow , to appease the anger of his brothers . " very well , " said the leader of the buffalos , whose form was nothing but bone . " yes , we know it , " and he and his followers moved off a little space from maidwa , as if they were afraid of him . " you have come , " resumed the buffalo - spirit , " to a place where a living man has never before been . you will return immediately to your tribe , for , under pretense of recovering one of the magic arrows which belong to you by your father 's dying wish , they have sent you off that they might become possessed of your beautiful wife , the red swan . speed home ! you will find the magic arrow at the lodge - door . you will live to a very old age , and die happily . you can go no further in these abodes of ours . " maidwa looked , as he thought , to the west , and saw a bright light as if the sun was shining in its splendor , but he saw no sun . " what light is that yonder ? " he asked . the all - boned buffalo answered--"it is the place where those who were good dwell . " " and that dark cloud ? " maidwa again asked . " it is the place of the wicked , " answered the buffalo . maidwa turned away , for it was very dark , and it pained his eyes to look upon it ; and , moving away by the aid of his guardian spirits , he again stood upon the earth , and beheld the sun giving light as usual . 