well , prince and princess flew into one another 's arms , and says the little man , says he , ' why are n't you eating ? ' ' i think , sir , ' says the prince , ' it was only good manner to wait to be asked . ' ' the other princes did n't think so , ' says he . ' each of them fell to without leave , and only gave me the rough words when i told them they were making more free than welcome . well , i do n't think they feel much hunger now . there they are , good marble instead of flesh and blood , ' says he , pointing to two statues , one in one corner , and the other in the other corner of the room . the prince was frightened , but he was afraid to say anything , and seven inches made him sit down to dinner between himself and his bride ; and he 'd be as happy as the day is long , only for the sight of the stone men in the corner . well , that day went by , and when the next came , says seven inches to him , ' now , you 'll have to set out that way , ' pointing to the sun , ' and you 'll find the second princess in a giant 's castle this evening , when you 'll be tired and hungry , and the eldest princess to - morrow evening ; and you may as well bring them here with you . you need not ask leave of their masters ; and perhaps if they ever get home , they 'll look on poor people as if they were flesh and blood like themselves . ' away went the prince , and bedad ! it 's tired and hungry he was when he reached the first castle , at sunset . oh , was n't the second princess glad to see him ! and what a good supper she gave him . but she heard the giant at the gate , and she hid the prince in a closet . well , when he came in , he snuffed , an ' he snuffed , and says he , ' by the life , i smell fresh meat . ' ' oh , ' says the princess , ' it 's only the calf i got killed to - day . ' ' ay , ay , ' says he , ' is supper ready ? ' ' it is , ' says she ; and before he rose from the table he ate three - quarters of a calf , and a flask of wine . ' i think , ' says he , when all was done , ' i smell fresh meat still . ' ' it 's sleepy you are , ' says she ; ' go to bed . ' ' when will you marry me ? ' says the giant . ' you 're putting me off too long . ' ' st . tibb 's eve , ' says she . ' i wish i knew how far off that is , ' says he ; and he fell asleep , with his head in the dish . 