maidwa thought that the old man did not know that he was standing near the door . in this he was mistaken . without turning his eyes to look at him , the old man said , " walk in , my grandchild . take a seat opposite to me , and take off your things and dry them , for you must be fatigued . i will prepare you something to eat , and you shall have something very delicate . " maidwa accepted this kind invitation , and entered the lodge . the old man then remarked , as if in mere course of conversation : " my kettle with water stands near the fire . " immediately a small earthen pot with legs appeared by the fire . he then took one grain of corn , also one of whortleberry , and put them in the pot . maidwa was very hungry , and seeing the limited scale of the old man 's housekeeping , he thought his chance for a supper was very slight . the old man had promised him something very delicate , and he seemed likely to keep his word . maidwa looked on silently , and did not change his face any more than if the greatest banquet that was ever spread had been going forward . the pot soon boiled , when the old man said in a very quiet way : " the pot will stand at a distance from the fire . " it removed itself , and the old man added to maidwa : " my grandchild , feed yourself ; " handing him at the same time a dish and ladle of the same ware as the pot itself . the young man , whose hunger was very great , helped himself to all that was in the pot . he felt ashamed to think that he had done so , but before he could speak the old man said : " eat , nay grandchild . eat , eat ! " and soon after he again said--"help yourself from the pot . " maidwa was surprised , on dipping in his ladle , to see that it was full . although he emptied it a second time , it was still again filled and refilled till his hunger was entirely satisfied . the old man then observed , without raising his voice : " the pot will return to its corner ; " and the pot took itself off to its accustomed place in an out - of - the - way corner of the lodge . maidwa observed that the old man was about to address him , and took an attitude which showed that he was prepared to listen . 