up and down swam the fish , then he made the most dreadful contortions , and became suddenly quite still . then it was as if a flash of lightning had passed through him ; the daylight streamed in , and a voice exclaimed , ' why , here is the little tin - soldier ! ' the fish had been caught , taken to market , sold , and brought into the kitchen , where the cook had cut it open with a great knife . she took up the soldier between her finger and thumb , and carried him into the room , where everyone wanted to see the hero who had been found inside a fish ; but the tin - soldier was not at all proud . they put him on the table , and - no , but what strange things do happen in this world!-the tin - soldier was in the same room in which he had been before ! he saw the same children , and the same toys on the table ; and there was the same grand castle with the pretty little dancer . she was still standing on one leg with the other high in the air ; she too was steadfast . that touched the tin - soldier , he was nearly going to shed tin - tears ; but that would not have been fitting for a soldier . he looked at her , but she said nothing . all at once one of the little boys took up the tin - soldier , and threw him into the stove , giving no reasons ; but doubtless the little black imp in the snuff - box was at the bottom of this too . there the tin - soldier lay , and felt a heat that was truly terrible ; but whether he was suffering from actual fire , or from the ardour of his passion , he did not know . all his colour had disappeared ; whether this had happened on his travels or whether it was the result of trouble , who can say ? he looked at the little lady , she looked at him , and he felt that he was melting ; but he remained steadfast , with his gun at his shoulder . suddenly a door opened , the draught caught up the little dancer , and off she flew like a sylph to the tin - soldier in the stove , burst into flames - and that was the end of her ! then the tin - soldier melted down into a little lump , and when next morning the maid was taking out the ashes , she found him in the shape of a heart . there was nothing left of the little dancer but her gilt rose , burnt as black as a cinder . 