the tobacco was now divided in equal shares among the company . they filled their pipes -- and huge pipes they were -- and such clouds they blew , that they rushed forth out of the lodge and brought on night , in all the country round about , several hours before its time . after a while passed in silence , the spirits rose up , and bearing off their tobacco - sacks , they went smoking through the country , and losing themselves in their own fog , till a late hour in the morning , when all of their pipes being burned out , each departed on his own business . the very next day the old sand - spirit , who was very much pleased with the turn affairs had taken at his entertainment , addressed wassamo : " son - in - law , i have made up my mind to allow you another holiday as an acknowledgment of the handsome manner in which you acquitted yourself of your embassy . you may visit your parents and relatives once more , to tell them that their wishes are granted , and to take your leave of them forever . you can never , after , visit them again . " wassamo at once set out , reached his people , and was heartily welcomed . they asked for his wife , and wassamo informed them that she had tarried at home to look after a son , a fine little sand - spirit , who had been born to them since his return . having delivered all of his messages and passed a happy time , wassamo said , " i must now bid you all farewell forever . " his parents and friends raised their voices in loud lamentation ; they clung to him , and as a special favor , which he could now grant , being himself a spirit , he allowed them to accompany him to the sand - banks . they all seated themselves to watch his last farewell . the day was mild ; the sky clear , not a cloud appearing to dim the heavens , nor a breath of wind to ruffle the tranquil waters . a perfect silence fell upon the company . they gazed with eager eyes fastened on wassamo , as he waded out into the water , waving his hands . they saw him descend , more and more , into the depths . they beheld the waves close over his head , and a loud and piercing wail went up which rent the sky . they looked again ; a red flame , as if the sun had glanced on a billow , lighted the spot for an instant ; but the feather of flames , wassamo of the fire - plume , had disappeared from home and kindred , and the familiar paths of his youth , forever . 