so they took leave of him with great respect , and walked arm - in - arm to the bottom of the draw - well . there was a sky and a sun over them , and a great high wall , covered with ivy , rose before them , and was so high they could not see to the top of it ; and there was an arch in this wall , and the bottom of the draw - well was inside the arch . the youngest pair went last ; and says the princess to the prince , ' i 'm sure the two princes do n't mean any good to you . keep these crowns under your cloak , and if you are obliged to stay last , do n't get into the basket , but put a big stone , or any heavy thing inside , and see what will happen . ' as soon as they were inside the dark cave , they put in the eldest princess first , and stirred the basket , and up she went . then the basket was let down again , and up went the second princess , and then up went the youngest ; but first she put her arms round her prince 's neck , and kissed him , and cried a little . at last it came to the turn of the youngest prince , and instead of going into the basket he put in a big stone . he drew on one side and listened , and after the basket was drawn up about twenty perches , down came it and the stone like thunder , and the stone was broken into little bits . they had n't been long at work when a tailor came in , and he sat down and began to talk . you all heard how the two princess were loth to be married till the youngest would be ready with her crowns and her sweetheart . but after the windlass loosened accidentally when they were pulling up her bridegroom that was to be , there was no more sign of a well , or a rope , or a windlass , than there is on the palm of your hand . so the princes that were courting the eldest ladies would n't give peace or ease to their lovers nor the king till they got consent to the marriage , and it was to take place this morning . myself went down out of curiousity , and to be sure i was delighted with the grand dresses of the two brides , and the three crowns on their heads -- gold , silver , and copper , one inside the other . the youngest was standing by mournful enough , and all was ready . the two bridegrooms came in as proud and grand as you please , and up they were walking to the altar rails , when the boards opened two yards wide under their feet , and down they went among the dead men and the coffins in the vaults . oh , such shrieks as the ladies gave ! and such running and racing and peeping down as there was ! but the clerk soon opened the door of the vault , and up came the two princes , their fine clothes covered an inch thick with cobwebs and mould . 