at the entrance the black bull stopped . " light down here , lady , " he said , " for in this glen a deadly conflict awaits me , which i must face unaided and alone . for the dark and gloomy region that lies before us is the abode of a great spirit of darkness , who worketh much ill in the world . i would fain fight with him and overcome him ; and , by my troth , i have good hope that i shall do so . as for thee , thou must seat thyself on this stone , and stir neither hand , nor foot , nor tongue till i return . for , if thou but so much as move , then the evil spirit of the glen will have thee in his power . " " but how shall i know what is happening to thee ? " asked the princess anxiously , for she was beginning to grow quite fond of the huge black creature that had carried her so gallantly these last four days , " if i have neither to move hand nor foot , nor yet to speak . " " thou wilt know by the signs around thee , " answered the bull . " for if everything about thee turn blue , then thou wilt know that i have vanquished the evil spirit ; but if everything about thee turn red , then the evil spirit hath vanquished me . " with these words he departed , and was soon lost to sight in the dark recesses of the glen , leaving the little princess sitting motionless on her stone , afraid to move so much as her little finger , in case some unknown evil fell upon her . at last , when she had sat there for well - nigh an hour , a curious change began to pass over the landscape . first it turned grey , and then it turned a deep azure blue , as if the sky had descended on the earth . " the bull hath conquered , " thought the princess . " oh ! what a noble animal he is ! " and in her relief and delight she moved her position and crossed one leg over the other . oh , woe - a - day ! in a moment a mystic spell fell upon her , which caused her to become invisible to the eyes of the prince of norroway , who , having vanquished the evil spirit , was loosed from the spell which had lain over him , and had transformed him into the likeness of a great black bull , and who returned in haste down the glen to present himself , in his rightful form , to the maiden whom he loved , and whom he hoped to win for his bride . long , long he sought , but he could not find her , while all the time she was sitting patiently waiting on the stone ; but the spell was on her eyes also , and hindered her seeing him , as it hindered him seeing her . 