the boy - man said , " why do you mind them ? give me something to eat . " " how can you think of eating at such a time ? " she replied . " do as i request you , and be quick . " she then gave little spirit his dish , and he commenced eating . just then the brothers came to the door . " see ! " cried the sister , " the man with four heads ! " the brothers were about to lift the curtain at the door , when the boy - man turned his dish upside down . immediately the door was closed with a stone , upon which the four brothers set to work and hammered with their clubs with great fury . at length they succeeded in making a slight opening . one of the brothers presented his face at this little window , and rolled his eye about at the boy - man in a very threatening way . the little spirit , who , when he had closed the door , had returned to his meal , which he was quietly eating , took up his bow and arrow which lay by his side , he let fly the shaft , which , striking the man in the head , he fell back . the boy - man merely called out " number one " as he fell , and went on with his meal . in a moment a second face , just like the first , presented itself . as he raised his bow , his sister said to him : " what is the use ? you have killed that man already . " little spirit fired his arrow -- the man fell -- he called out " number two , " and continued his meal . the two others of the four brothers were dispatched in the same quiet way , and counted off as " number three " and " number four . " after they were all well disposed of in this way , the boy - man directed his sister to go out and see them . she presently ran back , saying : " there are four of them . " " of course , " the boy - man answered , " and there always shall be four of them . " going out himself , the boy - man raised the brothers to their feet , and giving each a push , one with his face to the east , another to the west , a third to the south , and the last to the north , he sent them off to wander about the earth . whenever you see four men just alike , they are the four brothers whom the little spirit or boy - man dispatched upon their travels . but this was not the last display of the boy - man 's power . when spring came on , and the lake began to sparkle in the morning sun , the boy - man said to his sister : " make me a new set of arrows , and a bow . " the great fish said to the boy - man under water . " what is that floating ? " to which the boy - man replied : " go , take hold of it , swallow it as fast as you can . it is a great delicacy . " the fish darted toward the old shoe and swallowed it , making of it a mere mouthful . the boy - man laughed in himself , but said nothing , till the fish was fairly caught , when he took hold of the line and began to pull himself in his fish - carriage ashore . the sister , who was watching all this time , opened wide her eyes as the huge fish came up and up upon the shore . she opened them still more when the fish seemed to speak . she heard from within a voice , saying , " make haste and release me from this nasty place . " it was her brother 's voice , which she was accustomed to obey . she made haste with her knife to open a door in the side of the fish , from which the boy - man presently leaped forth . he lost no time in ordering her to cut it up and dry it , telling her that their spring supply of meat was now provided . the sister now began to believe that her brother was an extraordinary boy . yet she was not altogether satisfied in her mind that he was greater than the rest of the world . they sat , one evening , in the lodge , musing with each other in the dark , by the light of each other 's eyes -- for they had no other of any kind -- when the sister said , " my brother , it is strange that you , who can do so much , are no wiser than the ko - ko , who gets all his light from the moon ; which shines or not , as it pleases . " " and is not that light enough ? " asked the little spirit . " quite enough , " the sister replied . " if it would but come within the lodge and not sojourn out in the tree - tops and among the clouds . " " we will have a light of our own , sister , " said the boy - man . casting himself upon a mat by the door , he commenced singing : 