this is the wigwam , said ko - ko , and this is the old woman . " what are you looking for ? " asked the old woman . " i want to find the lodge with the wicked young women in it , who slay travellers and steal their trappings , " answered ko - ko . " you mean the two young women who lived in the flying lodge ? " said the old woman . " the same , " answered ko - ko . " i am going to kill them . " with this he gave a great flourish with his borrowed club , and looked desperate and murderous as he could . " they were slain yesterday by the wearer of the ball , " said the old woman . ko - ko looked around for the door in a very owlish way , and heaving a short hem from his chest , he acknowledged that he had heard something to that effect down in one of the villages . " but there 's the brother . i 'll have a chance at him , " said ko - ko . " he is dead too , " said the old woman . " is there nobody then left for me to kill ? " cried ko - ko . " must i then go back without any blood upon my hands ? " he made as if he could shed tears over his sad mishap . " the father is still living ; and you will find him in the lodge , if you have a mind to call on him . he would like to see the owl , " the old woman added . " he shall , " replied ko - ko . " have you any bones about the house ; for i suppose i shall have to climb that tree . " " oh , yes ; plenty , " answered the old woman . " you can have as many as you want . " and she gave him a handful of fish - bones , which ko - ko , taking them to be the invisible tallies which had helped onwee bahmondang in climbing the magical tree , thrust into his bosom . " thank you , " said ko - ko ; taking up his club and striding toward the door . " will you not have a little advice , " said the old woman . " this is a dangerous business you are going on . " ko - ko turned about and laughed to scorn the proposal , and putting forth his right foot from the lodge first , an observance in which he had great hopes , he started for the lodge of the wicked father . ko - ko ran very fast , as if he feared he should lose the chance of massacring any member of the wicked family , until he came in sight of the lodge hanging upon the tree . he then slackened his pace , and crept forward with a wary eye lest somebody might chance to be looking out at the door . all was , however , still up there ; and ko - ko clasped the tree and began to climb . away went the lodge , and up went ko - ko , puffing and panting , after it . and it was not a great while before the owl had puffed and panted away all the wind he had to spare ; and yet the lodge kept flying aloft , higher , higher . what was to be done ! 