there were many other playthings on the table on which they were being set out , but the nicest of all was a pretty little castle made of cardboard , with windows through which you could see into the rooms . in front of the castle stood some little trees surrounding a tiny mirror which looked like a lake . wax swans were floating about and reflecting themselves in it . that was all very pretty ; but the most beautiful thing was a little lady , who stood in the open doorway . she was cut out of paper , but she had on a dress of the finest muslin , with a scarf of narrow blue ribbon round her shoulders , fastened in the middle with a glittering rose made of gold paper , which was as large as her head . the little lady was stretching out both her arms , for she was a dancer , and was lifting up one leg so high in the air that the tin - soldier could n't find it anywhere , and thought that she , too , had only one leg . ' that 's the wife for me ! ' he thought ; ' but she is so grand , and lives in a castle , whilst i have only a box with four - and - twenty others . this is no place for her ! but i must make her acquaintance . ' then he stretched himself out behind a snuff - box that lay on the table ; from thence he could watch the dainty little lady , who continued to stand on one leg without losing her balance . when the night came all the other tin - soldiers went into their box , and the people of the house went to bed . then the toys began to play at visiting , dancing , and fighting . the tin - soldiers rattled in their box , for they wanted to be out too , but they could not raise the lid . the nut - crackers played at leap - frog , and the slate - pencil ran about the slate ; there was such a noise that the canary woke up and began to talk to them , in poetry too ! the only two who did not stir from their places were the tin - soldier and the little dancer . she remained on tip - toe , with both arms outstretched ; he stood steadfastly on his one leg , never moving his eyes from her face . 