about a week passed by : then one day the fox came into the cave , and flung himself down on the ground as if he were very much exhausted . but if anyone had looked at him closely they would have seen a sly twinkle in his eye . " oh , dear , oh , dear ! " he sighed . " life is a heavy burden . " " what have befallen you ? " asked the wolf , who was ever kind and soft - hearted . " some friends of mine , who live over the hills yonder , are wanting me to go to a christening to - night . just think of the distance that i must travel . " " but do you need to go ? " asked the wolf . " can you not send an excuse ? " " i doubt that no excuse would be accepted , " answered the fox , " for they asked me to stand god - father . therefore it behoveth me to do my duty , and pay no heed to my own feelings . " so that evening the fox was absent , and the wolf was alone in the cave . but it was not to a christening that the sly fox went ; it was to the keg of butter that was buried in the sand . about midnight he returned , looking fat and sleek , and well pleased with himself . the wolf had been dozing , but he looked up drowsily as his companion entered . " well , how did they name the bairn ? " he asked . " they gave it a queer name , " answered the fox . " one of the queerest names that i ever heard . " " and what was that ? " questioned the wolf . " nothing less than ' blaisean ' ( let - me - taste ) , " replied the fox , throwing himself down in his corner . and if the wolf could have seen him in the darkness he would have noticed that he was laughing to himself . some days afterwards the same thing happened . the fox was asked to another christening ; this time at a place some twenty - five miles along the shore . and as he had grumbled before , so he grumbled again ; but he declared that it was his duty to go , and he went . at midnight he came back , smiling to himself and with no appetite for his supper . and when the wolf asked him the name of the child , he answered that it was a more extraordinary name than the other--"be na inheadnon " ( be in its middle ) . the very next week , much to the wolf 's wonder , the fox was asked to yet another christening . and this time the name of the child was " sgriot an clar " ( scrape the staves ) . after that the invitations ceased . 