the brother kept on until he was nearly starved and ready to sink to the earth . he exclaimed , with a long - drawn and most mournful sigh , " oh ! i will forget the blood of my sisters , for i am starving . oh ! oh ! " but again he thought of the blood of his sisters , and what a fine appetite he would have if he should ever be allowed to eat any thing again , and once more he resolved to pursue , and to be content with nothing short of the amplest revenge . he pushed on till he came to the beautiful garden . he advanced toward the lodge . as soon as the fairy daughters perceived him they ran and told their father that a stranger approached . their father replied , " invite him in , my children , invite him in . " they did so promptly , and , by the command of their father , they boiled some corn , and prepared several other palatable dishes . the savor was most delicious to the nostrils of the hungry brother , who had not the least suspicion of the sport that was going on at his expense . he was faint and weary with travel , and he felt that he could endure fasting no longer ; for his appetite was terribly inflamed by the sight of the choice food that was steaming before him . he fell to and partook heartily of the meal ; and , by so doing , he was overcome , and lost his right of revenge . all at once he forgot the blood of his sisters , and even the village of his nativity , and his father 's lodge , and his whole past life . he ate so keenly , and came and went to the choice dishes so often , that drowsiness at length overpowered him , and he soon fell into a profound sleep . onwee bahmondang watched his opportunity , and as soon as he saw that the false brother 's sleep was sound , he resumed his youthful form , and sent off the two fairy daughters and the old garden ; and drawing the magic - ball from his back , which turned out to be a great war - club , he fetched the slumbering brother a mighty blow , which sent him away too ; and thus did onwee bahmondang vindicate his title as the wearer of the ball . 