so they took leave of him with great respect , and walked arm - in - arm to the bottom of the draw - well . there was a sky and a sun over them , and a great high wall , covered with ivy , rose before them , and was so high they could not see to the top of it ; and there was an arch in this wall , and the bottom of the draw - well was inside the arch . the youngest pair went last ; and says the princess to the prince , ' i 'm sure the two princes do n't mean any good to you . keep these crowns under your cloak , and if you are obliged to stay last , do n't get into the basket , but put a big stone , or any heavy thing inside , and see what will happen . ' as soon as they were inside the dark cave , they put in the eldest princess first , and stirred the basket , and up she went . then the basket was let down again , and up went the second princess , and then up went the youngest ; but first she put her arms round her prince 's neck , and kissed him , and cried a little . at last it came to the turn of the youngest prince , and instead of going into the basket he put in a big stone . he drew on one side and listened , and after the basket was drawn up about twenty perches , down came it and the stone like thunder , and the stone was broken into little bits . well , the poor prince had nothing for it but to walk back to the castle ; and through it and round it he walked , and the finest of eating and drinking he got , and a bed of bog - down to sleep on , and long walks he took through gardens and lawns , but not a sight could he get , high or low , of seven inches . he , before a week , got tired of it , he was so lonesome for his true love ; and at the end of a month he did n't know what to do with himself . one morning he went into the treasure room , and took notice of a beautiful snuff - box on the table that he did n't remember seeing there before . he took it in his hands and opened it , and out seven inches walked on the table . ' i think , prince , ' says he , ' you 're getting a little tired of my castle ? ' ' ah ! ' says the other , ' if i had my princess here , and could see you now and then , i 'd never know a dismal day . ' ' well , you 're long enough here now , and you 're wanted there above . keep your bride 's crowns safe , and whenever you want my help , open this snuff - box . now take a walk down the garden , and come back when you 're tired . ' 