the washerwoman , who was old and ugly , with a sly and evil face , said that she might -- on one condition -- and that was that she should try to wash a white mantle that the black knight of norroway had brought to her to wash , as he had got it stained in a deadly fight . " yestreen i spent the lee - long day washing it , " went on the old dame , " and i might as well have let it lie on the table . for at night , when i took it out of the wash - tub , the stains were there as dark as ever . peradventure , maiden , if thou wouldst try thy hand upon it thou mightest be more successful . for i am loth to disappoint the black knight of norroway , who is an exceeding great and powerful prince . " " is he in any way connected with the black bull of norroway ? " asked the princess ; for at the name her heart had leaped for joy , for it seemed that mayhap she was going to find once more him whom she had lost . the old woman looked at her suspiciously . " the two are one , " she answered ; " for the black knight chanced to have a spell thrown over him , which turned him into a black bull , and which could not be lifted until he had fought with , and overcome , a mighty spirit of evil that lived in a dark glen . he fought with the spirit , and overcame it and once more regained his true form ; but it is said that his mind is somewhat clouded at times , for he speaketh ever of a maiden whom he would fain have wedded , and whom he hath lost . though who , or what she was , no living person kens . but this story can have no interest to a stranger like thee , " she added slowly , as if she were sorry for having said so much . " i have no more time to waste in talking . but if thou wilt try and wash the mantle , thou art welcome to a night 's lodging ; and if not , i must ask thee to go on thy way . " needless to say , the princess said that she would try to wash the mantle ; and it seemed as if her fingers had some magic power in them , for as soon as she put it into water the stains vanished , and it became as white and clean as when it was new . of course , the old woman was delighted , but she was very suspicious also , for it appeared to her that there must be some mysterious link between the maiden and the knight , if his mantle became clean so easily when she washed it , when it had remained soiled and stained in spite of all the labour which she and her daughter had bestowed upon it . 