next day , he went out after breakfast , and she sent the prince to the castle where the eldest sister was . the same thing happened there ; but when the giant was snoring , the princess wakened up the prince , and they saddled two steeds in the stables and rode into the field on them . but the horses ' heels struck the stones outside the gate , and up got the giant and strode after them . he roared and he shouted , and the more he shouted , the faster ran the horses , and just as the day was breaking he was only twenty perches behind . but the prince did n't leave the castle of seven inches without being provided with something good . he reined in his steed , and flung a short , sharp knife over his shoulder , and up sprung a thick wood between the giant and themselves . they caught the wind that blew before them , and the wind that blew behind them did not catch them . at last they were near the castle where the other sister lived ; and there she was , waiting for them under a high hedge , and a fine steed under her . but the giant was now in sight , roaring like a hundred lions , and the other giant was out in a moment , and the chase kept on . for every two springs the horses gave , the giants gave three , and at last they were only seventy perches off . then the prince stopped again , and flung the second knife behind him . down went all the flat field , till there was a quarry between them a quarter of a mile deep , and the bottom filled with black water ; and before the giants could get round it , the prince and princesses were inside the kingdom of the great magician , where the high thorny hedge opened of itself to everyone that he chose to let in . there was joy enough between the three sisters , till the two eldest saw their lovers turned into stone . but while they were shedding tears for them , seven inches came in , and touched them with his rod . so they were flesh , and blood , and life once more , and there was great hugging and kissing , and all sat down to breakfast , and seven inches sat at the head of the table . 