for seven days she wandered about , eating only the fruit that hung from the trees above her , and every night she climbed up and tucked herself safely among the creepers which bound together the big branches , so that neither lions nor tigers nor panthers might get at her . when she woke up on the seventh morning she saw from her perch smoke coming up from a little town on the edge of the forest . the sight of the huts made her feel more lonely and helpless than before . she longed desperately for a draught of milk from a gourd , for there were no streams in that part , and she was very thirsty , but how was she to earn anything with only one hand ? and at this thought her courage failed , and she began to cry bitterly . it happened that the king 's son had come out from the town very early to shoot birds , and when the sun grew hot he left tired . ' i will lie here and rest under this tree , ' he said to his attendants . ' you can go and shoot instead , and i will just have this slave to stay with me ! ' away they went , and the young man fell asleep , and slept long . suddenly he was awakened by something wet and salt falling on his face . ' what is that ? is it raining ? ' he said to his slave . ' go and look . ' ' no , master , it is not raining , ' answered the slave . ' then climb up the tree and see what it is , ' and the slave climbed up , and came back and told his master that a beautiful girl was sitting up there , and that it must have been her tears which had fallen on the face of the king 's son . ' why was she crying ? ' inquired the prince . ' i can not tell -- i did not dare to ask her ; but perhaps she would tell you . ' and the master , greatly wondering , climbed up the tree . ' what is the matter with you ? ' said he gently , and , as she only sobbed louder , he continued : ' are you a woman , or a spirit of the woods ? ' ' i am a woman , ' she answered slowly , wiping her eyes with a leaf of the creeper that hung about her . ' then why do you cry ? ' he persisted . ' i have many things to cry for , ' she replied , ' more than you could ever guess . ' ' come home with me , ' said the prince ; ' it is not very far . come home to my father and mother . i am a king 's son . ' ' then why are you here ? ' she said , opening her eyes and staring at him . ' once every month i and my friends shoot birds in the forest , ' he answered , ' but i was tired and bade them leave me to rest . and you -- what are you doing up in this tree ? ' 