a poor man , called iena , or the wanderer , was in the habit of roaming about from place to place , forlorn , without relations , and almost helpless . he had often wished for a companion to share his solitude ; but who would think of joining their fortunes with those of a poor wanderer , who had no shelter but such as his leather hunting - shirt provided , and no other household in the world than the bundle which he carried in his hand , and in which his hunting - shirt was laid away ? one day as he went on a hunting excursion , to relieve himself of the burden of carrying it , iena hung up his bundle on the branch of a tree , and then set out in quest of game . on returning to the spot in the evening , he was surprised to find a small but neat lodge built in the place where he had left his bundle ; and on looking in he beheld a beautiful female , sitting on the further side of the lodge , with his bundle lying beside her . during the day iena had so far prospered in his sport as to kill a deer , which he now cast down at the lodge door . without pausing to take the least notice , or to give a word of welcome to the hunter , the woman ran out and began to see whether it was a large deer that he had brought . in her haste she stumbled and fell at the threshold . iena looked at her with astonishment , and thought to himself , " i supposed i was blessed , but i find my mistake . night - hawk , " said he , speaking aloud , " i will leave my game with you that you may feast on it . " he then took up his bundle and departed . after walking some time he came to another tree , on which he suspended his bundle as before , and went in search of game . success again attended him , and he returned , bringing with him a deer , and he found that a lodge had sprung up as before , where he had hung his bundle . he looked in and saw a beautiful female sitting alone , with his bundle by her side . she arose and came out toward the deer which he had deposited at the door , and he immediately went into the lodge and sat by the fire , as he was weary with the day 's hunt , which had carried him far away . the woman did not return , and wondering at her delay , iena at last arose , and peeping through the door of the lodge , beheld her greedily eating all the fat of the deer . he exclaimed , " i thought i was blessed , but i find i was mistaken . " then addressing the woman : " poor marten , " said he , " feast on the game i have brought . " he again took up his bundle and departed ; and , as usual , hung it upon the branch of a tree , and wandered off in quest of game . in the evening he returned , with his customary good luck , bringing in a fine deer . he again found that a lodge had taken the place of his bundle . he gazed through an opening in the side of the lodge , and there was another beautiful woman sitting alone , with a bundle by her side . as soon as he entered the lodge , she rose cheerfully , welcomed him home , and without delay or complaining , she brought in the deer , cut it up as it should be , and hung up the meat to dry . she then prepared a portion of it for the supper of the weary hunter . the man thought to himself , " now i am certainly blessed . " he continued his practice of hunting every day , and the woman , on his return , always welcomed him , readily took charge of the meat , and promptly prepared his evening meal ; and he ever after lived a contented and happy man . 