in the middle of the plain he perceived a post , and something waving at its top . it was the wampum scalp ; and every now and then the air was rent with the war - song , for they were dancing the war - dance in high spirit around it . before he could be observed , maidwa changed himself into a humming - bird , and flew toward the scalp . as he passed some of those who were standing by , he came close to their ears , and as they heard the rapid whirr or murmur which this bird makes when it flies , they jumped aside , and asked each other what it could be . maidwa had nearly reached the scalp , but fearing that he should be perceived while untying it , he again changed himself into the down that floats lightly on the air , and sailed slowly on to the scalp . he loosened it , and moved off heavily , as the weight was almost too great for him to bear up . the indians around would have snatched it away had not a lucky current of air just then buoyed him up . as they saw that it was moving away they cried out , " it is taken from us ! it is taken from us ! " maidwa was borne gently along but a little way above their heads ; and as they followed him , the rush and hum of the people was like the dead beating of the surges upon a lake shore after a storm . but the good wind gaining strength , soon carried him beyond their pursuit . a little further on he changed himself into a hawk , and flew swiftly off with his trophy , crying , " ka - kak ! ka - kak ! " till it resounded with its shrill tone through the whole country , far and wide . meanwhile the magician had remembered the instructions of maidwa , placing his head outside of the lodge as soon as he heard the ka - kak cry of the hawk . in a moment maidwa came past with rustling wings , and as he flew by , giving the magician a severe blow on the head with the wampum scalp , his limbs extended and quivered in an agony , the scalp adhered , and maidwa , in his own person , walked into the lodge and sat down , feeling perfectly at home . the magician was so long in recovering from the stunning blow which had been dealt him , that maidwa feared that in restoring the crown of his head he had destroyed his life . presently , however , he was pleased to see him show , by the motion of his hands and limbs , that his strength was returning ; and in a little while he rose and stood upon his feet . what was the delight of maidwa to behold , instead of a withered old man , far advanced in years and stricken in sorrow , a bright and cheerful youth , who glittered with life as he stood up before him . 