well , when the sticks were all burned tom was sent off again to pick more . this time he had to fight with a giant with two heads on him . tom had a little more trouble with him -- that 's all . the prayers he said was to give tom a fife that nobody could help dancing when he was playing it . begonies , he made the big faggot dance home , with himself sitting on it . well , if you were to count all the steps from this to dublin , dickens a bit you 'd ever arrive there . the next giant was a beautiful boy with three heads on him . he had neither prayers nor catechism no more nor the others . so he gave tom a bottle of green ointment that would n't let you be burned , nor scalded , nor wounded . " and now , " says he , " there 's no more of us . you may come and gather sticks here till little lunacy day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you . " well , now , tom was prouder nor ten paycocks , and used to take a walk down street in the heel of the evening . some of the little boys had no more manners nor if they were dublin jackeens , and put out their tongues at tom 's club and tom 's goat - skin . he did n't like that at all , and it would be mean to give one of them a clout . at last , what should come through the town but a kind of bellman , only it 's a big bugle he had , and a huntsman 's cap on his head , and a kind of painted shirt . so this -- he was n't a bellman , and i do n't know what to call him -- bugleman , maybe -- proclaimed that the king of dublin 's daughter was so melancholy that she did n't give a laugh for seven years , and that her father would grant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times . " that 's the very thing for me to try , " says tom . so , without burning any more daylight , he kissed his mother , curled his club at the little boys , and he set off along the yalla highroad to the town of dublin . at last tom came to one of the city gates , and the guards laughed and cursed at him instead of letting him through . tom stood it all for a little time , but at last one of them -- out of fun , as he said -- drove his bagnet half an inch or so into his side . tom did nothing but take the fellow by the scruff of his neck and the waistband of his corduroys and fling him into the canal . some ran to pull the fellow out , and others to let manners into the vulgarian with their swords and daggers . but a tap from his club sent them headlong into the moat or down on the stones , and they were soon begging him to stay his hands . so at last one of them was glad enough to show tom the way to the palace yard . there was the king and the queen , and the princess in a gallery , looking at all sorts of wrestling and sword - playing , and rinka - fadhas ( long dances ) and mumming , all to please the princess . but not a smile came over her handsome face . well , they all stopped when they seen the young giant , with his boy 's face and long black hair , and his short curly beard -- for his poor mother could n't afford to buy razhurs -- and his great strong arms and bare legs , and no covering but the goat - skin that reached from his waist to his knees . but an envious wizened basthard of a fellow , with a red head , that wished to be married to the princess , and did n't like how she opened her eyes at tom , came forward , and asked his business very snappishly . 