when he came up to the shore he was surprised to see four large , tall men , lying on the ice , spearing fish . they were four brothers , who looked exactly alike . as the little boy - man approached them , the nearest looked up . in his turn he was surprised to see such a tiny being . turning to his brothers , he said : " tia ! look ! see what a little fellow is here . " the three others then looked up too . seeing these four faces , as if they had been one , the little spirit or boy - man said to himself : " four in one ! what a time they must have in choosing their hunting - shirts ! " after they had all stared for a moment at the boy , they covered their heads , intent in searching for fish . the boy thought to himself : " these four - faces fancy that i am to be put off without notice because i am so little . they are so broad and long . they shall find out . i may find a way to teach them that i am not to be treated so lightly . " when he came within hail of the four large men , who were fishing there every day , he cast his ball with such force that it rolled into the ice - hole about which they were busy . the boy , standing on the shore of the lake , called out : " four - in - one , pray hand me my ball . " " no , indeed , " they answered , setting up a grim laugh which curdled their four dark faces all at once , " we shall not . " with their fishing - spears they thrust the ball under the ice . " good ! " said the boy - man , " we shall see . " saying which he rushed upon the four brothers and thrust them at one push into the water . his ball bounded back to the surface , and , picking it up , he ran off , tossing it before him in his own sportive way . outstripping it in speed he soon reached home , and remained within till the next morning . the four brothers , rising up from the water at the same time , dripping and angry , roared out in one voice a terrible threat of vengeance , which they promised to execute the next day . they knew the boy 's speed , and that they could by no means overtake him . by times in the morning , the four brothers were stirring in their lodge , and getting ready to look after their revenge . their old mother , who lived with them , begged them not to go . 