the door of the castle stood open , and they entered a great hall , and looked about them . not a creature was to be seen , and suddenly martin - he did not know why - felt a little frightened . he would have left the castle at once , but stopped when jack boldly walked up to a door in the wall and opened it . he could not for very shame be outdone by his younger brother , and passed behind him into another splendid hall , which was filled from floor to ceiling with great pieces of copper money . the sight quite dazzled martin and michael , who emptied all the provisions that remained out of their bags , and heaped them up instead with handfuls of copper . scarcely had they done this when jack threw open another door , and this time it led to a hall filled with silver . in an instant his brothers had turned their bags upside down , so that the copper money tumbled out on to the floor , and were shovelling in handfuls of the silver instead . they had hardly finished , when jack opened yet a third door , and all three fell back in amazement , for this room as a mass of gold , so bright that their eyes grew sore as they looked at it . however , they soon recovered from their surprise , and quickly emptied their bags of silver , and filled them with gold instead . when they would hold no more , martin said : ' we had better hurry off now lest somebody else should come , and we might not know what to do ' ; and , followed by michael , he hastily left the castle . jack lingered behind for a few minutes to put pieces of gold , silver , and copper into his pocket , and to eat the food that his brothers had thrown down in the first room . then he went after them , and found them lying down to rest in the midst of a forest . it was near sunset , and martin began to feel hungry , so , when jack arrived , he bade him return to the castle and bring the bread and cheese that they had left there . ' it is hardly worth doing that , ' answered jack ; ' for i picked up the pieces and ate them myself . ' at this reply both brothers were beside themselves with anger , and fell upon the boy , beating him , and calling him names , till they were quite tired . ' go where you like , ' cried martin with a final kick ; ' but never come near us again . ' and poor jack ran weeping into the woods . the next morning his brothers went home , and bought a beautiful house , where they lived with their mother like great lords . 