now it chanced that the young swine - herd once sat in the wood blowing his flute , while his three pigs were digging under the pine - roots . and an old , old man came along , with a beard so long and so broad that it hung far below his girdle . the old man had a large , powerful dog with him . when the youth saw the great dog , he thought to himself : " if a fellow had a dog like that to keep him company here in the wilderness , he might consider himself lucky . " and when the old man noticed this , he began : " that is why i have come , for i want to exchange my dog for one of your pigs . " the youth was at once willing , and closed the bargain . he received the great dog , and gave up the gray pig in place of it . then the old man went his way . but as he left he said : " you have reason to be satisfied with our exchange , for that dog is not like other dogs . his name is ' take hold ! ' and whatever you tell him to take hold of he will seize , even though it were the grimmest of trolls . " thereupon they parted , and the youth thought that fortune had indeed favored him . the following day the youth went to the wood again , with his dog and the two pigs . after a time he sat down and played his flute as usual , and the dog danced to his playing with such skill , that it was nothing short of a miracle . and as he was sitting there , the old man with the gray beard came out of the wood again , and with him another dog , no smaller than the first . when the youth saw the handsome beast he thought to himself : " if a fellow had that dog to keep him company here where it is so lonely , he need have no fear . " when the old man noticed this , he began : " that is why i have come , for i want to exchange my dog for one of your pigs . " the youth did not lose any time , but agreed to close the bargain . he received the great dog , and gave up one of his pigs in place of it . then the old man went his way . yet before he left he added : " you have reason to be well satisfied with your purchase , for this dog is not like the other dogs . his name is ' tear ! ' and if you give him something to tear , he will tear it to pieces , even though it were the grimmest of trolls . " then they parted . yet before he went he said : " you will be satisfied with your exchange , for this dog is not like other dogs . his name is ' hark ! ' and his hearing is so keen that he hears everything that happens , though it be happening many miles away . he even hears the grass and the trees grow . " then they parted in the friendliest spirit . but the youth was happy in the thought that now he need fear nothing in the world . and then , when evening came on , and the swine - herd went home , his mother was very sad to think that her son had sold all they possessed . but the youth told her to be of good courage , since he would see to it that they did not suffer want . and when he spoke to her in such a cheerful manner , she grew content again , and decided that he had spoken in wise and manly fashion . then when day dawned the youth went hunting with his dogs , and came back at evening with as much game as he could possibly carry . and he continued to go hunting in this way for a time until his old mother 's store - room was well provided with meat and all sorts of good things . then he bade his mother a fond farewell , called his dogs , and said he was going to wander out into the world and try his fortune . when the dance was over , the king asked the youth what he asked as a reward for having given him such a pleasure . the youth answered : " my lord king , i did not come to you to win gold and gear . but i have another request to make : that you allow me to set out and search for your three daughters , carried away by a mountain troll . " when the king heard this his thoughts once more grew gloomy , and he replied : " you need not even think of delivering my daughters . it is no child 's play , and your betters have already attempted it in vain . yet should it really come to pass that you deliver one of the princesses , you may be sure that i will not break my word . " so he took leave of the king and set forth . and he decided to take no rest until he had found what he sought . 