' that is a clever trick of yours , ' said the old man , when he had eaten as much as he wanted . ' give it to me in exchange for a treasure i have which is still better . do you see this cornet ? well , you have only to tell it that you wish for an army , and you will have as many soldiers as you require . ' now , since he had been left to himself , jack had grown ambitious , so , after a moment 's hesitation , he took the cornet and gave the table in exchange . the old man bade him farewell , and set off down one path , while jack chose another , and for a long time he was quite pleased with his new possession . then , as he felt hungry , he wished for his table back again , as no house was in sight , and he wanted some supper badly . all at once he remembered his cornet , and a wicked thought entered his mind . oh , what a good supper jack had that night , quite forgetting that he owed it to a mean trick . the next day he breakfasted early , and then walked on towards the nearest town . on the way thither he met another old man , who begged for something to eat . ' certainly , you shall have something to eat , ' replied jack . and , placing the table on the ground he cried : ' the dinner of an emperor ! ' when all sorts of food dishes appeared . at first the old man ate quite greedily , and said nothing ; but , after his hunger was satisfied , he turned to jack and said : ' that is a very clever trick of yours . give the table to me and you shall have something still better . ' ' i do n't believe that there is anything better , ' answered jack . ' yes , there is . here is my bag ; it will give you as many castles as you can possibly want . ' jack thought for a moment ; then he replied : ' very well , i will exchange with you . ' and passing the table to the old man , he hung the bag over his arm . five minutes later he summoned five hundred lancers out of the cornet and bade them go after the old man and fetch back the table . now that by his cunning he had obtained possession of the three magic objects , he resolved to return to his native place . smearing his face with dirt , and tearing his clothes so as to look like a beggar , he stopped the passers by and , on pretence of seeking money or food , he questioned them about the village gossip . in this manner he learned that his brothers had become great men , much respected in all the country round . when he heard that , he lost no time in going to the door of their fine house and imploring them to give him food and shelter ; but the only thing he got was hard words , and a command to beg elsewhere . at length , however , at their mother 's entreaty , he was told that he might pass the night in the stable . here he waited until everybody in the house was sound asleep , when he drew his bag from under his cloak , and desired that a castle might appear in that place ; and the cornet gave him soldiers to guard the castle , while the table furnished him with a good supper . in the morning , he caused it all to vanish , and when his brothers entered the stable they found him lying on the straw . 