mike by the stove replied that he had neither said nor thought anything of the kind ; but that seeing the king was so severe , he would try it . so he took a knapsack full of food and set out . but he had only pushed a little way into the wood before he grew hungry , and thought he would sample the provisions they had given him at the king 's castle . when he had sat down in all peace and comfort under a pine - tree by the side of the road , an old woman came limping along , and asked him what he had in his knapsack . " meat and bacon , granny , " said the youth . " if you are hungry , come and share with me ! " she thanked him , satisfied her hunger , and then telling him she would do him a favor in turn , limped off into the wood . when mike by the stove had eaten his fill , he slung his knapsack across his shoulder once more , and went his way ; but he had only gone a short distance before he found a whistle . that would be fine , thought he , to have a whistle , and be able to whistle himself a tune while he traveled , and before long he really succeeded in making it sound . that very moment the wood was alive with dwarfs , all of them asking with one voice : " what are my lord 's commands ? what are my lord 's commands ? " mike by the stove said he did not know he was their lord ; but if he had any command to give , he would ask them to bring him the fairest princess in twelve kingdoms . that would be easy enough , said the dwarfs ; they knew exactly who she was , and they could show him the way ; then he himself could go and fetch her , since the dwarfs were powerless to touch her . they showed him the way , and he reached his goal quickly and without trouble , for no one interfered with him . it was a troll 's castle , and in it were three beautiful princesses ; but when mike by the stove stepped in , they acted as though they had lost their wits , ran around like frightened lambs , and finally turned into three lemons that lay on the window - ledge . mike by the stove was in despair , and very unhappy because he did not know what to do . but after he had reflected a while , he took the three lemons , and put them in his pocket ; because , thought he , he might be glad he had done so should he grow thirsty during his journey , for he had heard that lemons were sour . 