now he passed through many broad kingdoms without meeting with any special adventures . and wherever he went his dogs followed him . " hark ! " ran along and listened for anything worth hearing to be heard around them ; " take hold ! " carried his master 's knapsack and " tear ! " who was the strongest , carried his master when the latter was weary . one day " hark ! " came running up hastily , and told his master that he had gone to a high mountain , and had heard the king 's daughter , who sat within it and span , and that the troll was not at home . this greatly pleased the youth , and he hurried toward the mountain together with his three dogs . when they got there " hark ! " said : " there is no time to lose . the troll is only ten miles away , and i can already hear the golden horse - shoes of his steed ringing on the stones . " the youth now ordered his dogs to break down the door into the mountain , and they did . and as he stepped into the mountain he saw a lovely maiden , sitting in the mountain - hall , winding a golden thread on a golden spindle . the youth went up and greeted the lovely girl . then the king 's daughter was much surprised and said : " who are you that dare to venture into the giant 's hall ? during all the seven long years i have been sitting here in the mountain i have never yet seen a human being . " and she added : " for heaven 's sake hasten away before the troll returns home , or else your life will be forfeit ! " but the youth was unafraid , and said that he would await the giant 's return without fear . they passed on together a long distance . then , one day , " hark ! " who always ran ahead scouting , came quickly back to his master , and told him he had been near a high mountain , and had heard the king 's second daughter sitting within it winding golden yarn , and that the troll himself was not at home . this was very welcome news for the youth , and he hurried toward the mountain with his faithful dogs . now when they drew near " hark ! " said : " there is no time to lose . the giant is only eight miles away , and i can already hear the golden horse - shoes of his steed ringing on the stones . " the youth at once ordered his dogs to break down the door into the mountain , no matter which way . and when he stepped into the interior of the mountain he saw a lovely maiden sitting in the mountain hall , winding golden yarn on a golden windle . the youth went up and greeted the lovely girl . the king 's daughter was much surprised and said : " who are you that dare to venture into the giant 's hall ? during all the seven years i have been sitting here in the mountain i have never yet seen a human being . " and she added : " for heaven 's sake , hasten away , for if the troll comes your life will be forfeit ! " but the youth told her why he had come , and said that he would await the troll 's return quite undisturbed . then , one day , " hark ! " who always ran ahead scouting , came hastily to his master and told him that he had been near a high mountain , and had heard the king 's third daughter sitting within and weaving a web of gold , and that the troll was not at home . this was very welcome news for the youth , and he hastened toward the mountain , followed by his three dogs . when he drew near " hark ! " said : " there is no time to lose , for the giant is only five miles away . i can already hear the golden horse - shoes of his steed ringing on the stones . " then the youth at once ordered his dogs to break down the door into the mountain , by hook or by crook . and when he stepped into the mountain , he saw a girl sitting in the mountain hall , weaving a web of gold . but this maiden was lovely beyond all measure , with a loveliness exceeding all the youth had ever thought to find on earth . he now went up and greeted the lovely maiden . then the king 's daughter was much surprised and said : " who are you that dare to venture into the giant 's hall ? during all the seven long years i have been sitting here in the mountain i have never yet seen a human being . " and she added : " for heaven 's sake , hasten away before the troll comes , or else your life will be forfeit ! " but the youth was full of confidence , and said he would gladly venture his life for the king 's lovely daughter . 