he left his boy to take care of the lodge while he was absent , hunting and roaming about from place to place , striving to forget his misfortune , and searching for the wicked weendigo . he had been gone but a little while one morning , when his son shot his arrows out through the top of the lodge , and running out to look for them , he could find them nowhere . the boy had been trying his luck , and he was puzzled that he had shot his shafts entirely out of sight . his father made him more arrows , and when he was again left alone , he shot one of them out ; but although he looked as sharply as he could toward the spot where it fell , and ran thither at once , he could not find it . he shot another , which was lost in the same way ; and returning to the lodge to replenish his quiver , he happened to espy one of the lucky arrows , which the first weendigo had given to his father , hanging upon the side of the lodge . he reached up , and having secured it , he shot it out at the opening , and immediately running out to find where it fell , he was surprised to see a beautiful boy just in the act of taking it up , and hurrying away with it to a large tree , where he disappeared . the hunter 's son followed , and having come to the tree , he beheld the face of the boy looking out through an opening in the hollow part . " ha ! ha ! " he said , " my friend , come out and play with me ; " and he urged the boy till he consented . they played and shot their arrows by turns . suddenly the young boy said , " your father is coming . we must stop . promise me that you will not tell him . " the hunter 's son promised , and the other disappeared in the tree . when the hunter returned from the chase , his son sat demurely by the fire . in the course of the evening he asked his father to make him a new bow ; and when he was questioned as to the use he could find for two bows , he answered that one might break or get lost . the father pleased at his son 's diligence in the practice of the bow , made him the two weapons ; and the next day , as soon as his father had gone away , the boy ran to the hollow tree , and invited his little friend to come out and play ; at the same time presenting to him the new bow . they went and played in the lodge together , and in their sport they raised the ashes all over it . suddenly again the youngest said , " your father is coming , i must leave . " he again exacted a promise of secresy , and went back to his tree . the eldest took his seat near the fire . when the hunter came in he was surprised to see the ashes scattered about . " why , my son , " he said , " you must have played very hard to day to raise such a dust all alone . " " yes , " the boy answered , " i was very lonesome , and i ran round and round -- that is the cause of it . " the next day the hunter made ready for the chase as usual . the boy said , " father , try and hunt all day , and see what you can kill . " he had no sooner set out than the boy called his friend , and they played and chased each other round the lodge . they had great delight in each other 's company , and made merry by the hour . the hunter was again returning , and came to a rising ground , which caught the winds as they passed , and he heard his son laughing and making a noise , but the sounds as they reached him on the hill - top , seemed as if they arose from two persons playing . at the same time the younger boy stopped , and after saying " your father is coming , " he stole away , under cover of the high grass , to his hollow tree , which was not far off . 