by good luck the lodge was well supplied with meats of various kinds ; the woman thought to please him by handing him these , which were savory and carefully prepared . but he pushed them away in disgust , saying , " i smell fire ; " and , not waiting to be invited , he seized upon the carcass of a deer which lay by the door , and dispatched it almost without stopping to take breath . when the hunter came home he was surprised to see the monster , he was so very frightful . he had again brought a deer , which he had no sooner put down than the cannibal seized it , tore it in pieces , and devoured it as though he had been fasting for a week . the hunter looked on in fear and astonishment , and in a whisper he told his wife that he was afraid for their lives , as this monster was one whom indians call weendigoes . he did not even dare to speak to him , nor did the cannibal say a word , but as soon as he had finished his meal , he stretched himself down and fell asleep . in the evening the weendigo told the people that he should go out a hunting ; and he strided away toward the north . toward morning he returned , all besmeared with blood , but he did not make known where he had been nor of what kind of game he had been in quest ; although the hunter and his wife had dreadful suspicions of the sport in which he had been engaged . withal his hunger did not seem to be staid , for he took up the deer which the hunter had brought in , and devoured it eagerly , leaving the family to make their meal of the dried meats which had been reserved in the lodge . in this manner the weendigo and the hunter 's family lived for some time , and it surprised them that the monster never attempted their lives ; although he never slept at night , but always went out and returned , by the break of day , stained with blood , and looking very wild and famished . when there was no deer to be had wherewith to finish his repast , he said nothing . in truth he was always still and gloomy , and he seldom spoke to any of them ; when he did , his discourse was chiefly addressed to the boy . one evening , after he had thus sojourned with them for many weeks , he informed the hunter that the time had now arrived for him to take his leave , but that before doing so , he would give him a charm that would bring good luck to his lodge . he presented to him two arrows , and thanking the hunter and his wife for their kindness , the weendigo departed , saying , as he left them , that he had all the world to travel over . the hunter and his wife were happy when he was gone , for they had looked every moment to have been devoured by him . he tried the arrows , and they never failed to bring down whatever they were aimed at . they had lived on , prosperous and contented , for a year , when , one day , the hunter being absent , his wife on going out of the lodge , saw something like a black cloud approaching . 