the hunter 's son followed , and having come to the tree , he beheld the face of the boy looking out through an opening in the hollow part . " ha ! ha ! " he said , " my friend , come out and play with me ; " and he urged the boy till he consented . they played and shot their arrows by turns . suddenly the young boy said , " your father is coming . we must stop . promise me that you will not tell him . " the hunter 's son promised , and the other disappeared in the tree . when the hunter returned from the chase , his son sat demurely by the fire . in the course of the evening he asked his father to make him a new bow ; and when he was questioned as to the use he could find for two bows , he answered that one might break or get lost . the father pleased at his son 's diligence in the practice of the bow , made him the two weapons ; and the next day , as soon as his father had gone away , the boy ran to the hollow tree , and invited his little friend to come out and play ; at the same time presenting to him the new bow . they went and played in the lodge together , and in their sport they raised the ashes all over it . suddenly again the youngest said , " your father is coming , i must leave . " he again exacted a promise of secresy , and went back to his tree . the eldest took his seat near the fire . when the hunter came in he was surprised to see the ashes scattered about . " why , my son , " he said , " you must have played very hard to day to raise such a dust all alone . " " yes , " the boy answered , " i was very lonesome , and i ran round and round -- that is the cause of it . " the next day the hunter made ready for the chase as usual . the boy said , " father , try and hunt all day , and see what you can kill . " he had no sooner set out than the boy called his friend , and they played and chased each other round the lodge . they had great delight in each other 's company , and made merry by the hour . the hunter was again returning , and came to a rising ground , which caught the winds as they passed , and he heard his son laughing and making a noise , but the sounds as they reached him on the hill - top , seemed as if they arose from two persons playing . at the same time the younger boy stopped , and after saying " your father is coming , " he stole away , under cover of the high grass , to his hollow tree , which was not far off . the hunter , on entering , found his son sitting by the fire , very quiet and unconcerned , although he saw that all the articles of the lodge were lying thrown about in all directions . " why , my son , " he said " you must play very hard every day ; and what is it that you do , all alone , to throw the lodge in such confusion ? " the boy again had his excuse . " father , " he answered , " i play in this manner : i chase and drag my blanket around the lodge , and that is the reason you see the ashes spread about . " the hunter was not satisfied until his son had shown him how he played with the blanket , which he did so adroitly as to set his father laughing , and at last drive him out of the lodge with the great clouds of ashes that he raised . the next morning the boy renewed his request that his father should be absent all day , and see if he could not kill two deer . the hunter thought this a strange desire on the part of his son , but as he had always humored the boy , he went into the forest as usual , bent on accomplishing his wish , if he could . as soon as he was out of sight , his son hastened to his young companion at the tree , and they continued their sports . the father on nearing his home in the evening , as he reached the rising ground , again heard the sounds of play and laughter ; and as the wind brought them straight to his ear , he was now certain that there were two voices . the boy from the tree had no more than time to escape , when the hunter entered , and found his son , sitting as usual , near the fire . when he cast his eyes around , he saw that the lodge was in greater confusion than before . " my son , " he said , " you must be very foolish when alone to play so . but , tell me , my son ; i heard two voices , i am sure ; " and he looked closely on the prints of the footsteps in the ashes . " true , " he continued , " here is the print of a foot which is smaller than my son 's ; " and he was now satisfied that his suspicions were well founded , and that some very young person had been the companion of his son . the boy could not now refuse to tell his father what had happened . " father , " he said , " i found a boy in the hollow of that tree , near the lodge , where you placed my mother 's bones . " strange thoughts came over the mind of the hunter ; did his wife live again in this beautiful child ? fearful of disturbing the dead , he did not dare to visit the place where he had deposited her remains . he , however , engaged his son to entice the boy to a dead tree , by the edge of a wood , where they could kill many flying - squirrels by setting it on fire . he said that he would conceal himself near by , and take the boy . 