it is easy to imagine how the princess felt . she opened her arms , and could neither ask questions nor reply to them , so moved and delighted was she . but the prince ran hastily up the hill , embraced her tenderly , and thanked her for delivering him . nor did he forget the little old man , but thanked him with many civil expressions for his powerful aid . then they sat down together on the hill - top , and had a pleasant talk . the prince told how he had been turned into a wolf , and of all he had suffered while running about in the forest ; and the princess told of her grief , and the many tears she had shed while he had been gone . so they sat the whole night through , and never noticed it until the stars grew pale and it was light enough to see . when the sun rose , they saw that a broad path led from the hill - top straight to the royal castle ; for they had a view of the whole surrounding country from the hill - top . then the old man said : " lovely maiden , turn around ! do you see anything out yonder ? " " yes , " said the princess , " i see a horseman on a foaming horse , riding as fast as he can . " then the old man said : " he is a messenger sent on ahead by the king your father . and your father with all his army is following him . " that pleased the princess above all things , and she wanted to descend the hill at once to meet her father . but the old man detained her and said : " wait a while , it is too early yet . let us wait and see how everything turns out . " time passed and the sun was shining brightly , and its rays fell straight on the royal castle down below . then the old man said : " lovely maiden , turn around ! do you see anything down below ? " " yes , " replied the princess , " i see a number of people coming out of my father 's castle , and some are going along the road , and others into the forest . " the old man said : " those are your step - mother 's servants . she has sent some to meet the king and welcome him but she has sent others to the forest to look for you . " at these words the princess grew uneasy , and wished to go down to the queen 's servants . but the old man withheld her and said : " wait a while , and let us first see how everything turns out . " more time passed , and the king 's daughter was still looking down the road from which the king would appear , when the old man said : " lovely maiden , turn around ! do you see anything down below ? " " yes , " answered the princess , " there is a great commotion in my father 's castle , and they are hanging it with black . " the old man said : " that is your step - mother and her people . they will assure your father that you are dead . " then the king 's daughter felt bitter anguish , and she implored from the depths of her heart : " let me go , let me go , so that i may spare my father this anguish ! " but the old man detained her and said : " no , wait , it is still too early . let us first see how everything turns out . " again time passed , the sun lay high above the fields , and the warm air blew over meadow and forest . the royal maid and youth still sat on the hill - top with the old man , where we had left them . then they saw a little cloud rise against the horizon , far away in the distance , and the little cloud grew larger and larger , and came nearer and nearer along the road , and as it moved one could see it was agleam with weapons , and nodding helmets , and waving flags , one could hear the rattle of swords , and the neighing of horses , and finally recognize the banner of the king . it is not hard to imagine how pleased the king 's daughter was , and how she insisted on going down and greeting her father . but the old man held her back and said : " lovely maiden , turn around ! do you see anything happening at the castle ? " " yes , " answered the princess , " i can see my step - mother and step - sisters coming out , dressed in mourning , holding white kerchiefs to their faces , and weeping bitterly . " the old man answered : " now they are pretending to weep because of your death . wait just a little while longer . we have not yet seen how everything will turn out . " after a time the old man said again : " lovely maiden , turn around ! do you see anything down below ? " " yes , " said the princess , " i see people bringing a black coffin - now my father is having it opened . look , the queen and her daughters are down on their knees , and my father is threatening them with his sword ! " then the old man said : " your father wished to see your body , and so your evil step - mother had to confess the truth . " when the princess heard that she said earnestly : " let me go , let me go , so that i may comfort my father in his great sorrow ! " but the old man held her back and said : " take my advice and stay here a little while longer . we have not yet seen how everything will turn out . " 