an opportunity soon offered itself . news came that the enemy had entered the land , and the king was compelled to go to war . now the princess began to find out the kind of step - mother she had . for no sooner had the king departed than the queen showed her true nature , and was just as harsh and unkind as she formerly had pretended to be friendly and obliging . not a day went by without her scolding and threatening the princess and the queen 's daughters were every bit as malicious as their mother . but the king 's son , the lover of the princess , found himself in even worse position . he had gone hunting one day , had lost his way , and could not find his people . then the queen used her black arts and turned him into a werewolf , to wander through the forest for the remainder of his life in that shape . when evening came and there was no sign of the prince , his people returned home , and one can imagine what sorrow they caused when the princess learned how the hunt had ended . she grieved , wept day and night , and was not to be consoled . but the queen laughed at her grief , and her heart was filled with joy to think that all had turned out exactly as she wished . now it chanced one day , as the king 's daughter was sitting alone in her room , that she thought she would go herself into the forest where the prince had disappeared . she went to her step - mother and begged permission to go out into the forest , in order to forget her surpassing grief . the queen did not want to grant her request , for she always preferred saying no to yes . but the princess begged her so winningly that at last she was unable to say no , and she ordered one of her daughters to go along with her and watch her . that caused a great deal of discussion , for neither of the step - daughters wanted to go with her . each made all sorts of excuses , and asked what pleasures were there in going with the king 's daughter , who did nothing but cry . but the queen had the last word in the end , and ordered that one of her daughters must accompany the princess , even though it be against her will . so the girls wandered out of the castle into the forest . the king 's daughter walked among the trees , and listened to the song of the birds , and thought of her lover , for whom she longed , and who was now no longer there . and the queen 's daughter followed her , vexed , in her malice , with the king 's daughter and her sorrow . after they had walked a while , they came to a little hut , lying deep in the dark forest . by then the king 's daughter was very thirsty , and wanted to go into the little hut with her step - sister , in order to get a drink of water . but the queen 's daughter was much annoyed and said : " is it not enough for me to be running around here in the wilderness with you ? now you even want me , who am a princess , to enter that wretched little hut . no , i will not step a foot over the threshold ! if you want to go in , why go in alone ! " the king 's daughter lost no time ; but did as her step - sister advised , and stepped into the little hut . when she entered she saw an old woman sitting there on a bench , so enfeebled by age that her head shook . 