the boy went out again and brought home the little animal , which he asked his grandfather to boil , that they might feast on it . he humored the boy in this , and he encouraged him to go on in acquiring the knowledge of hunting , until he could kill deer and the larger kinds of game ; and he became , as he grew up , an expert hunter . as they lived alone , and away from other indians , the curiosity of the stripling was excited to know what was passing in the world . one day he came to the edge of a prairie , where he saw ashes like those at his grandfather 's lodge , and lodge - poles left standing . he returned , and inquired whether his grandfather had put up the poles and made the fire . he was answered , no . nor did he believe that he had seen any thing of the kind . he must have lost his senses to be talking of such things . another day the young man went out to see what there was , within a day 's hunt , that was curious ; and on entering the woods he heard a voice calling out to him , " come here , you destined wearer of the white feather . you do not wear it , yet , but you are worthy of it . return home and take a short nap . you will dream of hearing a voice , which will tell you to rise and smoke . you will see in your dream a pipe , a smoking - sack , and a large white feather . when you awake you will find these articles . put the feather on your head , and you will become a great hunter , a great warrior , and a great man , able to do any thing . as a proof that these things shall come to pass , when you smoke , the smoke will turn into pigeons . " the voice then informed the young man who he was , and made known the character of his grandfather , who was imposing upon him to serve his own ends . the voice - spirit then caused a vine to be laid at his side , and told him that he was now of an age to avenge the wrongs of his kindred . " when you meet your enemy , " the spirit added , " you will run a race with him . he will not see the vine , because it is enchanted . while you are running , you will throw it over his head and entangle him , so that you will win the race . " 