there was an old man living in the depth of a forest , with his grandson , whom he had taken in charge when quite an infant . the child had no parents , brothers , or sisters ; they had all been destroyed by six large giants , and he had been informed that he had no other relative living beside his grandfather . the band to whom he had belonged had put up their children on a wager in a race against those of the giants , and had thus lost them . there was an old tradition in the tribe , that , one day , it would produce a great man , who would wear a white feather , and who would astonish every one by his feats of skill and bravery . the grandfather , as soon as the child could play about , gave him a bow and arrows to amuse himself with . he went into the edge of the woods one day , and saw a rabbit ; but not knowing what it was , he ran home and described it to his grandfather . he told him what it was , that its flesh was good to eat , and that if he would shoot one of his arrows into its body he would kill it . he returned , and inquired whether his grandfather had put up the poles and made the fire . he was answered , no . nor did he believe that he had seen any thing of the kind . he must have lost his senses to be talking of such things . another day the young man went out to see what there was , within a day 's hunt , that was curious ; and on entering the woods he heard a voice calling out to him , " come here , you destined wearer of the white feather . you do not wear it , yet , but you are worthy of it . return home and take a short nap . you will dream of hearing a voice , which will tell you to rise and smoke . you will see in your dream a pipe , a smoking - sack , and a large white feather . when you awake you will find these articles . put the feather on your head , and you will become a great hunter , a great warrior , and a great man , able to do any thing . as a proof that these things shall come to pass , when you smoke , the smoke will turn into pigeons . " the voice then informed the young man who he was , and made known the character of his grandfather , who was imposing upon him to serve his own ends . the voice - spirit then caused a vine to be laid at his side , and told him that he was now of an age to avenge the wrongs of his kindred . " when you meet your enemy , " the spirit added , " you will run a race with him . he will not see the vine , because it is enchanted . while you are running , you will throw it over his head and entangle him , so that you will win the race . " long before this speech was ended the young man had turned to the quarter from which the voice proceeded , and he was astonished to behold a man ; for as yet he had never seen any human being beside his grandfather . as he looked more keenly , he saw that this man , who had the looks of great age , was wood from the breast downward , and that he appeared to be fixed in the earth . as his eye dwelt upon this strange being , the countenance by degrees faded away , and when he advanced to the spot whence it had addressed him , it was gone . he returned home ; slept ; in the midst of his slumbers , as from the hollow of the air , heard the voice ; wakened and found the promised gifts . his grandfather , when his attention was called to his awakening , was greatly surprised to find the youth with a white feather on his forehead , and to see flocks of pigeons flying out of his lodge . he then remembered the old tradition , and knowing that now the day when he should lose control of his charge had begun , he bitterly bewailed the hour . possessed of his three magic gifts , the young man departed the next morning , to seek his enemies , and to demand revenge . 