he proceeded toward the lodge , met the female as had been foretold to him , and became an elk . she reproached him that he had cast aside the form of a man that he might avoid her . " i have traveled a great distance , " she added , " to see you and to become your wife ; for i have heard of your great achievements , and admire you very much . " now this woman was the sixth giant , who had assumed this disguise to entrap white feather . without a suspicion of her real character , her reproaches and her beauty affected him so deeply that he wished himself a man again , and he at once resumed his natural shape . they sat down together , and he began to caress and to make love to her . soothed by her smiles and her gracious manners , he ventured to lay his head on her lap , and in a little while he fell into a deep slumber . even then , such was her fear of white feather , she doubted whether his sleep might not be feigned . to assure herself she pushed his head aside , and seeing that he remained unconscious , she quickly assumed her own form as the sixth giant , took the plume from the brow of white feather and placed it upon his own head , and with a sudden blow of his war - club changed him into a dog , in which degraded form he followed his enemy to the lodge . while these things were passing , there were living in an indian village at some distance , two sisters , the daughters of a chief , who were rivals , and they were at that very time fasting to acquire power , for the purpose of enticing the wearer of the white feather to visit their lodge . they each secretly hoped to engage his affections , and each had built a lodge in the border of the village encampment . the giant knowing this , and having become possessed of the magic plume , went immediately to visit them . as he approached , the sisters , who were on the look - out at their lodge - doors , espied and recognized the feather . the eldest sister had prepared her lodge with great show , and all the finery she could command , so as to attract the eye . the youngest touched nothing in her lodge , but left it in its ordinary state . the eldest went out to meet the giant , and invited him in . he accepted her invitation , and made her his wife . the youngest sister invited the enchanted dog into her lodge , prepared him a good supper and a neat bed , and treated him with much attention . the giant , supposing that whoever possessed the white feather possessed also all its virtues , went out upon the prairie to hunt , hallooing aloud to the game to come and be killed ; but the great hubbub he kept up scared them away , and he returned at night with nothing but himself ; for he had shouted so lustily all day long that he had been even obliged to leave the mighty halloo , with which he had set out , behind . 