the dog went out the same day hunting upon the banks of a river . he stole quietly along to the spot , and stepping into the water he drew out a stone , which instantly became a beaver . the next day the giant followed the dog , and hiding behind a tree , he watched the manner in which the dog hunted in the river when he drew out a stone , which at once turned into a beaver . " ah , ha ! " said the giant to himself , " i will catch some beaver for myself . " and as soon as the dog had left the place , the giant went to the river , and , imitating the dog , he drew out a stone , and was delighted to see it , as soon as it touched the land , change into a fine fat beaver . tying it to his belt he hastened home , shouting a good deal , and brandishing the white feather about , as if he were prepared now to show them what he could do when he once tried . when he reached home he threw it down , as is the custom , at the door of the lodge before he entered . after being seated a short time , he gave a dry cough , and bade his wife bring in his hunting girdle . she made dispatch to obey him , and presently returned with the girdle , with nothing tied to it but a stone . the next day , the dog finding that his method of catching beavers had been discovered , went to a wood at some distance , and broke off a charred limb from a burned tree , which instantly became a bear . the giant , who appeared to have lost faith in his hulla - balooing , had again watched him , did exactly as the dog had done , and carried a bear home ; but his wife , when she came to go out for it , found nothing but a black stick tied to his belt . and so it happened with every thing . whatever the dog undertook , prospered ; whatever the giant attempted , failed . every day the youngest sister had reason to be more proud of the poor dog she had asked into her lodge , and every day the eldest sister was made more aware , that though she had married the white feather , the virtues of the magic plume were not the personal property of the noisy giant . 