when they were all assembled and seated in a circle , the old chief took his pipe and filled it , and passed it to the indians around , to see if any thing would happen when they smoked . they passed it on until it came around to the dog , who made a sign that it should be handed first to the giant , which was done . and the giant puffed with all his might , and shook the white feather upon his head , and swelled his chest ; but nothing came of it , except a great deal of smoke . the dog then took it himself . he made a sign to them to put the white feather upon his head . this was no sooner done , than he recovered his speech , and , beginning to draw upon the pipe at the same moment , behold , immense flocks of white and blue pigeons rushed from the smoke . from that moment the sixth giant was looked upon as an impostor , and as soon as white feather had , at the request of the company , faithfully recounted his history , the old chief , who was one of the best - hearted magicians that ever lived , ordered that the giant should be transformed into a dog , and turned into the middle of the village , where the boys should pelt him to death with clubs ; which being done , the whole six giants were at an end , and never troubled that neighborhood again , forever after . the chief then gave out a command , at the request of white feather , that all the young men should employ themselves four days in making arrows . white feather also asked for a buffalo robe . this he cut into thin shreds , and in the night , when no one knew of it , he went and sowed them about the prairie in every direction . at the end of the four days , he invited them to gather together all of their arrows , and to accompany him to a buffalo hunt . when they got out upon the prairie , they found it covered with a great herd of buffaloes . of these they killed as many as they pleased , and , afterward , they had a grand festival in honor of white feather 's triumph over the giants . all this being pleasantly over , white feather got his wife to ask her father 's permission to go with him on a visit to his grandfather . the old chief replied to this application , that a woman must follow her husband into whatever quarter of the world he may choose to go . bidding farewell to all his friends , white feather placed the plume in his frontlet , and taking his war - club in his hand , he led the way into the forest , followed by his faithful wife . 