the six giants lived in a very high lodge in the middle of a wood . he traveled on , in good heart , till he reached this lodge , where he found that his coming had been made known by the little spirits who carry the news . the giants hastened out , and gave a cry of joy as they saw him drawing near . when he approached within hail , they began to make sport of him , saying , " here comes the little man with the white feather , who is to achieve such wonderful wonders . " when , however , he had arrived among them , they spoke him fair , saying he was a brave man and would do brave things . their object was to encourage him , so that he would be bold to engage in some fool - hardy trial of strength . without paying much heed to their fine speeches , white feather went fearlessly into their lodge ; and without waiting for invitation , he challenged them to a foot - match . they agreed ; and , as they said , by way of being easy with him , they told him to begin the race with the smallest of their number . the point to which they were to run was a peeled tree toward the rising sun , and then back to the starting - place , which was a war - club of iron . whoever won this stake , was empowered to use it in dispatching the defeated champion . if white feather should overcome the first giant , he was to try the second , and so on , until they had all measured speed with him . by a dexterous use of the vine , he gained the first race , struck down his competitor , and cut off his head . the next morning he ran with the second giant , whom he also outran , killed and beheaded . he went on in this way for the five mornings , always conquering by the aid of his vine , and lopping off the heads of the vanquished giants . the last of the giants who was yet to run with him acknowledged his power , but prepared secretly to deceive him . by way of parley , he proposed that white feather should leave the heads with him , and that he would give him a handsome start for odds . this white feather declined , as he preferred to keep the heads as trophies of his victory . before going to the giant 's lodge , on the sixth morning , he met his old counselor in the woods , standing rooted in the earth , as before . he told white feather that he was about to be deceived ; that he had never known any other sex but his own , but that as he went on his way to the lodge he would meet the most beautiful woman in the world . he must pay no attention to her , but as soon as he caught her eye he must wish himself changed into an elk . the change would take place immediately , and he must go to feeding and not look at her again . white feather thanked his kind adviser , and when he turned to take his leave he was gone as before . 