the next morning he ran with the second giant , whom he also outran , killed and beheaded . he went on in this way for the five mornings , always conquering by the aid of his vine , and lopping off the heads of the vanquished giants . the last of the giants who was yet to run with him acknowledged his power , but prepared secretly to deceive him . by way of parley , he proposed that white feather should leave the heads with him , and that he would give him a handsome start for odds . this white feather declined , as he preferred to keep the heads as trophies of his victory . before going to the giant 's lodge , on the sixth morning , he met his old counselor in the woods , standing rooted in the earth , as before . he told white feather that he was about to be deceived ; that he had never known any other sex but his own , but that as he went on his way to the lodge he would meet the most beautiful woman in the world . he must pay no attention to her , but as soon as he caught her eye he must wish himself changed into an elk . the change would take place immediately , and he must go to feeding and not look at her again . white feather thanked his kind adviser , and when he turned to take his leave he was gone as before . he proceeded toward the lodge , met the female as had been foretold to him , and became an elk . she reproached him that he had cast aside the form of a man that he might avoid her . " i have traveled a great distance , " she added , " to see you and to become your wife ; for i have heard of your great achievements , and admire you very much . " now this woman was the sixth giant , who had assumed this disguise to entrap white feather . without a suspicion of her real character , her reproaches and her beauty affected him so deeply that he wished himself a man again , and he at once resumed his natural shape . they sat down together , and he began to caress and to make love to her . soothed by her smiles and her gracious manners , he ventured to lay his head on her lap , and in a little while he fell into a deep slumber . even then , such was her fear of white feather , she doubted whether his sleep might not be feigned . to assure herself she pushed his head aside , and seeing that he remained unconscious , she quickly assumed her own form as the sixth giant , took the plume from the brow of white feather and placed it upon his own head , and with a sudden blow of his war - club changed him into a dog , in which degraded form he followed his enemy to the lodge . 