in the morning , wunzh 's father came to his lodge with some slight refreshments , saying : " my son , you have fasted long enough . if the great spirit will favor you , he will do it now . it is seven days since you have tasted food , and you must not sacrifice your life . the master of life does not require that . " " my father , " replied wunzh , " wait till the sun goes down . i have a particular reason for extending my fast to that hour . " " very well , " said the old man , " i shall wait till the hour arrives , and you shall be inclined to eat . " at his usual hour of appearing , the beautiful sky - visitor returned , and the trial of strength was renewed . although he had not availed himself of his father 's offer of food , wunzh felt that new strength had been given him . his heart was mighty within him to achieve some great purpose . courage was like the eagle that spreads his wings within the tree - top for a great flight , within the bosom of the brave wunzh . he grasped his angel challenger with supernatural strength and threw him down . mindful of his own instructions , he tore from him his beautiful garments and plume . finding him dead , he immediately buried him on the spot , using all the precautions he had been told of . very confident was wunzh , all the time , that his friend would again come to life . wunzh now returned to his father 's lodge , where he was warmly welcomed . as it had been appointed to him during the days of his fasting to walk apart with heaven , he was not permitted to see any human face save that of his father , the representative to the little household upon earth of the good father who is in heaven . wunzh partook sparingly of the meal that had been prepared for him , and once more mingled in the cares and sports of the family . but he never for a moment forgot the grave of his friend . he carefully visited it throughout the spring , and weeded out the grass , and kept the ground in a soft and pliant state . sometimes , when the brave wunzh thought of his friend that was gone from his sight , he dropped a tear upon the earth where he lay . watching and tending , and moistening the earth with his tears , it was not long before wunzh saw the tops of green plumes coming through the ground . the more faithful he was in obeying his instructions in keeping the ground in order , and in cherishing the memory of his departed friend , the faster they grew . he was , however , careful to conceal the charge of the earth which he had from his father . days and weeks had passed in this way . the summer was drawing toward a close , when one day , after a long absence in hunting , wunzh invited his father to follow him to the quiet and lonesome spot of his former fast . 