the brave wunzh felt that his strength of body was even less than on the day before , but the courage of his mind seemed to grow . observing this , and how wunzh put his whole heart in the struggle , the stranger again spoke to him in the words he used before , adding : " to - morrow will be your last trial . be strong , my friend , for this is the only way in which you can overcome me and obtain the boon you seek . " the light which shone after him as he left wunzh was brighter than before . on the third day he came again and renewed the struggle . very faint in body was poor wunzh , but he was stronger at heart than ever , and determined to prevail now or perish . he put forth his utmost powers , and after a contest more severe than either of the others , the stranger ceased his efforts , and declared himself conquered . for the first time he entered wunzh 's little fasting - lodge . sitting down beside the youth , he began to deliver his instructions to him and to inform him in what manner he should proceed to take advantage of his victory . " you have won your desire of the great spirit , " said the beautiful stranger . " you have wrestled manfully . to - morrow will be the seventh day of your fasting . your father will give you food to strengthen you , and as it is the last day of trial you will prevail . i know this , and now tell you what you must do to benefit your family and your people . tomorrow , " he repeated , " i shall meet you and wrestle with you for the last time . as soon as you have prevailed against me , you will strip off my garments and throw me down , clean the earth of roots and weeds , make it soft , and bury me in the spot . when you have done this , leave my body in the earth , and do not disturb it . come at times to visit the place , to see whether i have come to life . above all be careful to never let the grass or weeds grow upon my grave . once a month cover me with fresh earth . if you follow these my instructions you will accomplish your object of doing good to your fellow - creatures by teaching them the knowledge i now teach you . " he then shook wunzh by the hand and disappeared , but he was gone so soon that wunzh could not tell what direction he took . in the morning , wunzh 's father came to his lodge with some slight refreshments , saying : " my son , you have fasted long enough . if the great spirit will favor you , he will do it now . it is seven days since you have tasted food , and you must not sacrifice your life . the master of life does not require that . " " my father , " replied wunzh , " wait till the sun goes down . i have a particular reason for extending my fast to that hour . " " very well , " said the old man , " i shall wait till the hour arrives , and you shall be inclined to eat . " at his usual hour of appearing , the beautiful sky - visitor returned , and the trial of strength was renewed . although he had not availed himself of his father 's offer of food , wunzh felt that new strength had been given him . his heart was mighty within him to achieve some great purpose . courage was like the eagle that spreads his wings within the tree - top for a great flight , within the bosom of the brave wunzh . he grasped his angel challenger with supernatural strength and threw him down . mindful of his own instructions , he tore from him his beautiful garments and plume . finding him dead , he immediately buried him on the spot , using all the precautions he had been told of . very confident was wunzh , all the time , that his friend would again come to life . 