as soon as the first buds of spring appeared , and the delicious fragrance of the young year began to sweeten the air , his father , with the help of his younger brothers , built for wunzh the customary little lodge . it was at a retired spot at some distance from their own , where he would not be disturbed during the solemn rite . to prepare himself , wunzh sought to clear his heart of every evil thought , and to think of nothing that was not good , and beautiful , and kindly . that he might store his mind with pleasant ideas for his dreams , for the first few days he amused himself by walking in the woods and over the mountains , examining the early plants and flowers . as he rambled far and wide , through the wild country , he felt a strong desire to know how the plants and herbs and berries grew , without any aid from man . he wondered why it was that some kinds were good to eat , and that others were possessed of medicinal or poisonous power . after he had become too weak to walk about , and confined himself strictly to the lodge , he recalled these thoughts , and turning them in his mind , he wished he could dream of something that would prove a benefit to his father and family , and to all others of his fellow - creatures . " true , " thought wunzh , " the great spirit made all things , and it is to him that we owe our lives . could he not make it easier for us to get our food , than by hunting animals and taking fish ? i must try to find this out in my visions . " on the third day wunzh became weak and faint , and kept his bed . suddenly he fancied , as he lay thus , that a bright light came in at the lodge door . before he was aware , he saw a handsome young man , with a complexion of the softest and purest white , coming down from the sky , and advancing toward him . the beautiful stranger was richly and gayly dressed , having on a great many garments of green and yellow colors , but differing in their deeper or lighter shades . he had a plume of waving feathers on his head , and all his motions were graceful . he reminded wunzh of the deep green of the summer grass , and the clear amber of the summer sky , and the gentle blowing of the summer wind . beautiful as the stranger was , he paused on a little mound of earth , just before the door of the lodge . " i am sent to you , my friend , " said this celestial visitor , in a voice most soft and musical to listen to . " i am sent to you by that great spirit who made all things in the sky , and on the earth . he has seen and knows your motives in fasting . he sees that it is from a kind and benevolent wish to do good to your people , and to procure a benefit for them . he sees that you do not seek for strength in war , or the praise of the men of the bloody hand . i am sent to instruct you and to show you how you can do your kindred good . " 