once upon a time there was a woman who had a son . he was so lazy and slow that there was not a single blessed useful thing he would do . but he liked to sing and to dance , and that is what he did all day long , and far into the night as well . the longer this went on , the worse off his mother was . the youth was growing , and he wanted so much to eat that it was barely possible to find it . more and more went for his clothes the older he grew , since his clothes did not last long , as you may imagine , because the youth skipped and dance about without stopping , through forest and field . at length it was too much for his mother . one day she told the young fellow that he ought at last to get to work , and really do something , or both of them would have to starve to death . but the youth had no mind to do so , he said , and would rather try to win the daughter of the mother in the corner . if he got her , then he would live happily ever after , and could sing and dance , and would not have to plague himself with work . when he stood before the door at home , he turned around ; and there lay many , many hundred yards of the finest linen , finer than the most skillful weaver could have spun . " mother , come out , come out ! " called and cried the youth . his mother came darting out , and asked what was the matter . and when she saw the linen , stretching as far as she could see , and then a bit , she could not believe her eyes , until the youth told her how it all happened . but when she had heard that , and had tested the linen between her fingers , she was so pleased that she , too , began to sing and dance . then she took the linen , cut it , and sewed shirts from it for her son and herself . the remainder she took to town and sold for a good price . then for a time they lived in all joy and comfort . but when that was over the woman had not a bite to eat in the house . she told her son that it was the highest time for him to take service , and really do something , or else both of them would have to starve to death . 