" good - day , my boy , " said the rat . " you are welcome ! i see that you can no longer live without me , and i thank you . and now everything is in readiness for our wedding , and we will go straight to church . " nothing will come of that , thought the youth , but he did not say a word . then the rat whistled , and at once every corner was alive with swarms of mice and small rats , and six large rats came dragging along a frying - pan . two mice sat up behind as grooms , and two sprang up in front to drive the coach . several seated themselves within , and the rat with the bunch of keys took her place in their midst . to the youth she said : " the road is a little narrow here , so you will have to walk beside the coach , sweetheart , until the road is broader . and then you may sit beside me in the coach . " " how fine that will be ! " thought the youth . " if i were only safely up above once more , i would run away from the whole pack of them , " thought he , but he said nothing . he went along with the procession as well as he could . at times he had to crawl , at others he had to stoop , for the way was very narrow . but when it grew better , he walked in advance , and looked about to see how he might most easily steal away and make off . and then he suddenly heard a clear , beautiful voice behind him say : " now the road is good ! come , sweetheart , and get into the coach ! " the youth turned around quickly , and was so astonished that his nose and ears nearly fell off . there stood a magnificent coach with six white horses , and in the coach sat a maiden as fair and beautiful as the sun , and about her were sitting others , as bright and kindly as the stars . it was a princess and her playmates , who had all been enchanted together . but now they were delivered , because he had come down to them , and had never contradicted . " come along now ! " said the princess . then the youth got into the coach , and drove to church with her . and when they drove away from the church , the princess said : " now we will first drive to my home , and then we will send for your mother . " 